PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 15/04/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario(CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS), Juncheng (XEFEL), Roberto(CERIC) and Ornela(CERIC)


Minutes
-------	

Before starting the meeting Roberto shared the news that Emilio (participating in WP3 and WP4) has resigned from his role at CERIC and therefore CERIC will open a position.

**1. Do we move the meeting back to 14:00h?** 

There has been broad agreement on moving back the meeting to Wednesdays at 14:00h, therefore from now on PMC meetings will take place by default Wednesdays at 14:00h


**3. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

Summary table of upcoming deliverables:
| Deliverable | New date | Original Date | 
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | 
| D1.2b Mid-year Summary | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated | **end April** | *May 2020* | 
| D3.1 API definition | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service | **mid-April** | *May 2020* |  
| D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks | **April?** | *May 2020* | 


* **WP7 - Sustainibility** : Ornela reported that *D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks* is very advanced, with only formatting changes requried (content is fully done). Therefore the document will be validated at the next WP7 meeting and work will focus on the cost model (what approach to  follow and template).

Jordi said that there is a workshop 27/28 April for Landscaping and that Ornela, Andy, Florian and Jordi have said that they will attend.

Ornela also explained that another workshop has taken place recently (EOSC Pillars) and that it contained feedback from surveys. While the methodology and questions of the surveys may not be 100% fit for purpose for us the data is still interesting and Ornela will share it as soon as this information is available.

Andy also said that there is the Rules of Participation document to review (for which the deadline to provide feedback has passed already). There was agreement with Ornela that while the document scope is larger than WP7, her WP will lead the review of this document and feedback to the PMC. A brief conversation followed with Jean-François about how this new document fits with the tinman report and whether it brings anything new, however it was agreed that our cost model should be based on certain rules of participation, so it is important to look at the document and take it into account (if we use other rules, then it should be explained why and the implications).

* **WP8 - Staff training in data stewardship** : Thomas reported ongoing conversations with Florian about how ELI should participate in WP8 and work with the University of Copenhaguen to organise workshops. Thomas also reported that there will be a meeting with WP6 soon (it couldn't take place recently due to a key member of WP6 not being available) in order to talk about AAI for pan-learning.org

Many partners of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS are looking forward the workshops in order to be able to add content to pan-learning.org and Thomas confirmed the workshops should take place after the summer.

Andy added that the recent Hercules remote course was maybe recorded anf if so we could use it (GDPR permitting).


* **WP9 - Outreach & Communication** : Nicoletta reported progress on getting agreement to add logos of Research Facilities (30 out of 33 have been collected, including [LENS](https://www.lens-initiative.org/) and [LEAPS](https://leaps-initiative.eu/) ) to the DOI video (Diamond is still missing).

Nicoletta also explained that the work with ILL is progressing towards a common action aiming at contacting journals to stimulate inclusion of "data DOIs in accepted papers". A draft letter for editors has been prepared, as well as a contact list. The final version will be sent together with the video on DOI currently being upgraded. In the discussion with ILL, the question was raised on whether we should contact directly journals' editors in chief, or staff members (e.g. comms officers, administrattive staff). In the 1st scenario, it would be preferable that the letter is signed by the directors of our RIs (+ LENS and LEAPS). 

Jordi said that while ambitious, the idea of a letter signed by our directors seemed good.

Nicoletta also reported issues regarding keeping up to date the calendar for PaNOSC and Jordi said that he agreed to try to integrate it into his work calendar, as this way he could review it, but he has not done so yet.

Nicoletta also mentioned that FAIRsFAIR requested the community feedback on their deliverables: https://www.fairsfair.eu/fairsfair-deliverables-community-review


* **WP1 - Management** : Jordi reported a meeting with ExPaNDS to talk about how we are both working together ([link](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46)), ongoing work to organise the annual meeting ([link](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/53)) and its rehearsal and reminded everyone that has not filled in information regarding KPIs or Risks to do so (this will be part of the review meeting).

Jordi also explained that while we agreed to do an Internal Financial Report with data until end of April, as part of the Mid-term report we will need to submit plenty of financial information, therefore he suggested to do the Internal Financial Report at the same time as the Mid-term report and only ask for financial information once. The suggestion was accepted.


* **WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship** : Andy reported work on reviewing the Data Policy Franework, which is well advanced. A discussion on Fairness of Data Analysis & Software will take place with Hans and now the WP team is focusing on reviewing the Data Policy Framework against the FAIR Maturity document from RDA (**ANDY TO ADD LINK to the document**).

Andy praised the collaboration with ExPaNDS on WP2 and also reported reading/discussing loads of articles related to FAIR, RDA outputs, etc. 

* **WP3 - Data Catalog Services** : Tobias explained that a meeting is planned for this Friday on Search API (a deliverable due end of May), with some issues on GitHub and integrating feedback from ExPaNDS.

Tobias explained that Catalog Integration is ongoing and advancing well and the need to work together with WP4 for the Review Meeting.

Tobias also talked about the difficulty in ranking aggregated search resultls from different facilities, to ensure that the most relevant results are first, which is a very complex issue.

* **WP4 Data Analysis Services** : Hans reported work on *D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service*, for which they are meeting this afternoon in order to advance towards a draft. 

Hans also explained that there are conversations with Andy regarding what presentations to use for the Review meeting and showed some Open Science done with COVID-19 data ([link](https://fangohr.github.io/coronavirus/)). A conversation started on whether PaNOSC should show this with arguments for (we can lead on technical areas, we could add later PaN data and data from other clusters) and against (it is not PaN data and it is off-topic for PaNOSC). It was agreed that it could be used as part of WP9 (Outreach) and if possible, to link Diamond Photon data would be good.

* **WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** : Juncheng reported work on a small demo for the Review Meeting and a [WP5 spring workshop being organised next week](https://github.com/PaNOSC-ViNYL/workshop2020).

Andy also explained that WP5 has some new collaborators from CERIC, ILL and ELI.

* **WP6 - EOSC Integration** : Jean-François reported work on the deliverable due end of May and working on a pilot to transfer data (using OneData), for which he reported some issues due to a new Phython library within OneData (using POSIX file system could be a workaround). A benchmark will be done to include figures in the deliverable.

Jean-François also explained that a telco will take place next week to talk about a specific use case to the people behind FTS (which competes with Globus). Andy and Jean-François then talked briefly about the possibility of INFRAEOSC-03 funding this and also about conversations between EGI and GlobusConnect about the possibility of EGI becoming a node in Globus.

Jean-François finished his report saying that the fact that DataTransfer is not in the EOSC Core (as per the Tinman Report) is problematic and a converstion followed about how Data Transfer could be financed and why is important and from the PaNOSC point of view of vital importance.


**4. AOB**

There wasn't time for anything else. A meeting will be scheduled next week (22nd April) for the Review Meeting via Zoom.



















