# Participants

* Peter, DTU/ESS
* Linda, UCPH/ESS
* Jepser, ESS
* Thomas, ESS

# Minutes

## Actions from last meeting
All actions completed, except for the invitation of everybody else to WP Meeting and there has not yet been a PMB meeting

## Puppetising of e-learning
Jesper created issues created in JIRA with due dates on stories

## Jupyter notebook
Discussion on how to integrate Jupyter in e-learning platform - two independent solutoins are not ideal, however, it is not 
yet clear how Jupyter can be integrated. 


Currently it looks like what we will get out from WP4 is a list of software that can run in Jupyter but not how to integrate 
Jupyter in the e-learning platform, which ultimately then relies on ELI in WP8. WP8 should develop a requirement document for 
WP4 and ELI. Ideally Moodle should interact with Jupyter and there has been some activities in this regard:

https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator

https://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=362641

## Future WP8 course (the course for making courses)

Linda would like to have clarified what a future course should cover. Proposal is to train people how to organize a course and 
select the right tools for the aim of the course.



# Actions

- [ ] Develop requirement document for Jupyter integration in e-learning platform. Jesper to initiate that in a shared document.

- [ ] How will budget allocated for videos in PaNOSC be managed? Thomas to raise the question at PMB.











