# Agenda

1. Work package update (Thomas)
2. Update from each partner (all)
3. Discussion
   * WP meeting at annual meeting
       * Is there basis for one?
       * Agenda
   * Workshop beginning of next year
   * Partners' engagement and commitment
4. Moving to monthly VC meetings?
5. AoB

# Place and time

https://esrf.vidyocloud.com/join/q0zkRjp3zk 14:00-15:00

# Participants

* Florian, ELI
* Vincent, ESRF
* Nicoletta, CERIC-ERIC
* Linda, ESS/UCPH
* Peter, ESS/DTU
* Mads, ESS
* Thomas, ESS

# Summary

* The meeting started out with a 'round-the-table' presentation followed by 
1. _Work package update_. a [work package presentation](snippets/PaNOSC_WP8_VC1.pdf) was given by Thomas. So far, and according to plan, only ESS had contributed. Moreover, ESS had worked out [KPIs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iivsvBrix4v6lmC2U3sOC6YEXFeY0JzXHTM9QQQZwiY/edit#gid=2060225314
) and [intermediate milestones](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Plans/PANOSC%20Tasks%2C%20Deliverables%20and%20Milestones.docx) that should be reviewed by the other partners and then could be discussed at the annual meeting. _**Action**_ Everybody to review KPIs and intermediate milestones.
2. _Update from partners_:
  * ELI (Florian). Had a meeting beforehand with Thomas. Confirmed commitment to WP8 and will probably recruit a person for the 'softer' teaching tasks in WP8. Whereas the technical ones related to the e-learning platform will be handled with existing staff that also are involved in WP4. ELI will try to liaison with other laser infrastructures for creating schools.
  * ESRF (Vincent). Vincent's role in PaNOSC should merely be considered as a consultant role qua his role in the HERCULES school. Was not sure how ESRF would contribute to WP8. 
  * CERIC-ERIC (Nicoletta). Had tried unsuccesfully to get some of his colleagues to participate in this meeting. Did not know who to engage with in relation to this work package. 
  * ESS (Thomas). Peter from Technical University of Denmark and Linda from University of Copenhagen have been seconded part-time to ESS to work on the e-learning platform and content in the e-learning platform. Peter has been technical lead on the e-learning platform in SINE2020, whereas Linda has been the PI with pedagogical insight. So far the work at ESS has focused on the first task, migration of e-neutrons.org to ESS, which primarily has and will be performed by the ESS Data Systems and Technology Group.
3. _Discussion_
* The primary item discussed was the question about whom from the facilities should be involved in WP8. 
* Thomas pointed out, that a related question was discussed at the kick-off meeting where it was agreed that partners should explore at their  respective facilities which content they would like to see in the e-learning platform. This doen not seem to have happened yet. 
* Linda would appreciate if she could get a better understanding of who will participate in a workshop related to staff training on how to use the e-learning platform. It was suggested that people already involved in PaNOSC would be relevant for only those tasks that are directly related to the other work packages, e.g. uptake of the PaNOSC services, but that the primary target group for staff training (Task 8.4 and 8.5) would be the scientists, i.e. those at the facilities who usually train users. Vincent strongly suggested to get hold of young scientists because it would be easier for them to dedicate time for this and they usually come with a high level of enthusiasm. This does not mean that they should be the overall responsible for the context, this could still be a senior scientist at the respective facilities. In light of this discussion, everybody should try to get hold of the right persons at their respective facilities. Thomas had already discussed with ILL and thinks he can the right persons inovlved from there _**Actions**_ Nicoletta to contact people in CERIC-ERIC who have been involved in HERCULES. Thomas to talk to Hans (WP4 leader about engagement from XFEL staff).
* Florian suggested that WP2-4 leaders were requested to include an item on their agenda for the annual meeting on how they will engage with WP8. Thomas agreed to do that. This is highly relevant for _Task 8.5 Staff training in data stewardship_ and _Task 8.6 Training materials to foster the uptake of PaNOSC services_. _**Action**_ Thomas to contact work package leaders. 
* Thomas to discuss with Andy about what to present at the annual meeting and how to get other people engaged with this work package. 
* It was also discussed that it might be relevant with a face-to-face meeting in the beginning of 2020 because far from everybody can participate in the WP5-8 meeting at the annual meeting.
4. _Monthly meetings?_ It was agreed that monthly meetings should be started. _**Action**_ Thomas to invite people for monthly meetings.
5. _AoB_ Nothing was discussed
  

# Actions
- [ ] Everybody to review intermediate milestones and KPIs
- [ ] Thomas to schedule monthly meetings
- [ ] Contact WP leaders and ask to include an item for WP8 on how they will interface to WP8 in their work packages
  - [ ] Thomas write Andy (WP2)
  - [ ] Thomas write Tobias (WP3)
  - [ ] Thomas write Hans (WP4)
- [ ] Thomas to contact Hans about relevant XFEL staff for staff training. 
- [ ] Thomas to have a chat with Andy about WP8 contributions to the annual meeting
- [ ] Nicoletta to contact people in CERIC-ERIC who have been involved with the HERCULES school
