# Participants

* Jesper, ESS
* Mads, ESS
* Thomas, ESS
* Torben, ESS
* Peter, DTU/ESS

# Location

DMSC, Conference Room Bohr

# Minutes

## WP8

* Thomas had meeting with Hans (WP4 leader) and Robert from EXGEL regarding MS8.1, visualization techniques and scippy. 
  Neil and SImon also participated from ESS;
  * MS8.1: Thomas to draft a plan and send to Hans
  * Visualization: ESS should upload their visualization use cases to WP4 repo and WP4 should also evaluate vtki as a 
      visualization framework. DONE!
  * Simon should make a presentation of  scipp and scippy for xfel people. There was no immediate interest in this in relation to WP4. 
* An EPIC has been generated in JIRA with some stories in it. Currently the stories do not have a any deadlines. Action (See below)
* A general concern is that the DST group currently lacks resources, but PaNOSC recruit will start August 1st, 
  who will work on WP4, 6, and 8 jointly with the DST team. 
* There was a general discussion on whether we should be more active / contribute more to other work packages, e.g. WP4, 
  however, with no conclusion reached.
* Communication to outside world. We should place minutes from meetings in github repo even though only local staff participates. We 
  should however be better at communicating to outside world -  JIRA is for instance an internal system. Agreed to invite everyone 
  interested in VC in. Thomas will invite.
  
 
  
 ## WP5
 * Mads does not seem to be on the email list. Thomas ask Jordi to add him.
 * Carsten has asked for a list of relevant simulation software. Mads will send McStas link to PaNData lib and link to API. 
 
# Actions

* Jesper: Define milestones deadlines and due dates for stories. May 8, 2019
* Thomas: Invite other to VC in to our weekly meetings on WP8 email list and make them aware of the minutes.
* Thomas: ask Jordi to add Mads to Wp5 list.
* Jesper: Upload minutes from last meeting.




