
# Participants

* Peter, DTU/ESS
* Linda, UCPH/ESS
* Jesper, ESS
* Mads, ESS

# Minutes

## Actions from last meeting

### Linda access to Jira
It seems Linda has wrong credentials to access the Jira board 


## Updates
Linda's student Tommy from KU is succesfully using the new Wiki at https://ucphmediawiki.esss.dk/ucph/index.php/Main_Page 
Durging the summer a number of adjustments to modules etc. have been implemented.
DST 'PaNOSC' employee arrived.

# Actions
- [ ] Jesper: Add Linda to Jira board
- [ ] Peter: Check moodle support for user-defined PREFIX variables (mediawiki-links)
- [ ] Peter: Try out https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator according to https://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=362641 for investigation of Moodle <-> Jupyter via LTI
- [ ] Thomas: Write WP8 progress report
- [ ] Peter: Evaluate latest stable MediaWiki with remaining e-neutrons platform
- [ ] Thomas: Draft joint plan with WP4 and 5, incl. requirements for Jupyter integration


## From past meetings
- [x] Linda: Communicate contact information for Tommy wrt. deployment of stand-alone MediaWiki @ ESS to Jesper
- [x] Develop requirement document for Jupyter integration in e-learning platform. Jesper initiated a shared document.
- [x] How will budget allocated for videos in PaNOSC be managed? Thomas to raise the question at PMB.    
- [x] Jesper: Define milestones deadlines and due dates for stories. May 8, 2019
- [x] Thomas: Invite other to VC in to our weekly meetings on WP8 email list and make them aware of the minutes.
- [x] Thomas: ask Jordi to add Mads to Wp5 list.
- [x] Jesper: Upload minutes from last meeting.
- [x] Thomas: Bring up the question about the google calendar at next PMB meeting
- [x] Peter: Provide snippet for how to embed calendar.
        This [calendar snippet](snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html) should be visible via [this link](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html)

