
# Participants

* Peter, DTU/ESS
* Mads, ESS
* Thomas, ESS
* Alexandre, ESS

# Minutes

## Actions from last meeting

## Updates
* Annual Meeting (4th-5th of November in Trieste) - indico is at https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/
* PM-board meeting wednesday last week, WP8 should define internal milestones and KPI's, see https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Meetings/Project%20Management%20Committee/2019-08-28-PMC/2019-08-28-PMC_Summary.md
* PaNOSC Confluence page at (LINK?)
* We should give an e-neutrons update at the annual meeting (https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/). Linda should consider "How to prepare training material" which is already listed. Maybe too premature? (Feedback.)
* Initial discussions of internal milestones for WP8. Align with WP8 summary from 1st annual meeting. 

# Actions
- [ ] Thomas: Organise telco with all WP8 participants in prep of Annual Meeting
- [ ] All: Consider attendance in Annual Meeting (4th-5th of November in Trieste)
- [ ] Peter: Look for {\bf Q} as in \qbold in e-neutrons MathJax config and communicate to Alexandre
- [ ] Alexandre: Follup-up on SNOW issue / escalation 
- [ ] Alexandre: Check if Cite and CrossRef mediawiki plugins are installed and if they seem to work (ex: https://ucphmediawiki.esss.dk/ucph/index.php/The_scattering_cross_section_for_phonons)
- [ ] Linda & Peter: Check which non-standard courses exist, to communicate new wiki and structure from January 2020
- [ ] Linda (Tommy): Update development courses @e-neutrons.org to use ucph wiki
- [ ] Jesper: Look at iFitlab - formulate ticket
- [ ] Peter: Try out https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator according to https://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=362641 for investigation of Moodle <-> Jupyter via LTI


## From past meetings
- [X] Thomas: Document progress report location (https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Submitted%20Deliverables/D1.2%20Mid-Year%20Summary%20Report/2019/PaNOSC_D1.2_Mid-Year%20Summary_20190528.pdf)
- [X] Thomas: Add Linda to Jira board / check that relevant Linda Udby account (without '2') is allowed access - two exist??
- [X] Peter: Recover script for URL-modification on moodle course "packages" (.mbz) and investigate usability
- [X] Linda: Formulate email request about mail access to ESS (send to Alexandre)
- [X] Alexandre: Submit the above to SNOW
- [X] Thomas: Draft joint plan with WP4 and 5, incl. requirements for Jupyter integration (see minutes of relevant meeting)
- [X] Peter: Evaluate latest stable MediaWiki with remaining e-neutrons platform (essentials, e.g. LDAP support)
- [X] Thomas: Write WP8 progress report
- [x] Linda: Create new version of the Tartu course for Tommy
- [x] Peter: Check moodle support for user-defined PREFIX variables (mediawiki-links)
- [x] Linda: Communicate contact information for Tommy wrt. deployment of stand-alone MediaWiki @ ESS to Jesper
- [x] Develop requirement document for Jupyter integration in e-learning platform. Jesper initiated a shared document.
- [x] How will budget allocated for videos in PaNOSC be managed? Thomas to raise the question at PMB.    
- [x] Jesper: Define milestones deadlines and due dates for stories. May 8, 2019
- [x] Thomas: Invite other to VC in to our weekly meetings on WP8 email list and make them aware of the minutes.
- [x] Thomas: ask Jordi to add Mads to Wp5 list.
- [x] Jesper: Upload minutes from last meeting.
- [x] Thomas: Bring up the question about the google calendar at next PMB meeting
- [x] Peter: Provide snippet for how to embed calendar.
        This [calendar snippet](snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html) should be visible via [this link](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html)

