## Participants

* Thibaud
* Peter
* Florian
* Vincent
* Uwe
* Thomas

## Agenda

###  Updates from ESS
* Updated Victor and Jesper on what we discussed at last meeting, but haven't heard back
* Working on how to redirect payment for secondment agreement 
* Repository for django-code from pan-learning.org is at https://github.com/pan-learning-org/djangotools (send Peter an email if you want to be part of the related GitHub organisation)

### Updates from ELI
* WP4 people would be happy to get involved
* University group in Bucharest is interested in getting involved with Jupyter integration and maintenance 


## Updates from ExPaNDS
* WP4 collecting reference data sets for training. We should make those data sets available from the e-learning platform. 

## Next meeting:
* May 5 at 3 pm is placeholder. Final decision when we have feedback from Victor, Jesper and coordinators


Tasks
- [ ] Thomas: Organize meeting with Victor and Jesper 
- [ ] Thomas: Compile list of potential participants for workshop
- [ ] Florian: Reach out to coordinators of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS to get top-level alignment
- [ ] Thibaud: Start making a gantt chart in google sheet
- [ ] Nazar√©: Update [list of courses](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/TrainingMaterials/urls.md)

