
# Participants

* Peter, DTU/ESS
* Thomas, ESS
* Mads, ESS

# Minutes

## Actions from last meeting
WP5: McStasScript well received at ORNL for SNS and HFIR guide updates etc.

## Updates

# Actions
- [ ] Thomas: Get Brian and Ari to discuss issue of 'user-transferral' from existing e-neutrons
- [ ] Thomas: Put up doodle for monthly WP8 meeting
- [ ] Peter / Jakob: Work on https://github.com/McStasMcXtrace/McWeb/issues/220
- [ ] Thomas: Ensure ESS staff is on WP8 mailinglist (in progress)
- [ ] Alexandre: Check if Cite and CrossRef mediawiki plugins are installed and if they seem to work (ex: https://ucphmediawiki.esss.dk/ucph/index.php/The_scattering_cross_section_for_phonons). In progress. It does look like this was also not working at original site i.e. [[Diffraction from crystals#label-eq:diffraction_DW|this equation]] used in place of \ref{eq:diffraction_DW}
- [ ] Linda & Peter: Check which non-standard courses exist, to communicate new wiki and structure from January 2020
- [ ] Linda: Update development courses @e-neutrons.org to use ucph wiki, in progress.
- [ ] DST: Look at iFitlab - formulate ticket

## From past meetings
- [X] Peter: Communicate with ELI wrt. Jhub (Jakub) on status
- [X] Peter: Ask LTI-jupyter bridge developers about option to return data from Jupyter to Moodle (https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator/issues/28)
- [X] Kareem, Alexandre & Peter: Define milestones for e-neutrons migration (VC on Thursday Dec 5th 11:00?)
- [X] Peter: Try out https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator according to https://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=362641 for investigation of Moodle <-> Jupyter via LTI. in progress (Lottie Greenwood will assist in deployment of a Jupyter before end of November)
- [X] Thomas: Invite Fredrik to this meeting series
- [X] PaNOSC GA: WP5+8 try to schedule meeting for 3h Wednesday morning, including public demo of e-neutrons at end
- [X] In October 10th PaNOSC VC, decide if there is basis for WP8 meeting in Trieste
- [X] All: Consider attendance in Annual Meeting (4th-5th of November in Trieste)
- [X] Thomas: Organise telco with all WP8 participants in prep of Annual Meeting - in prep. doodle link: https://doodle.com/poll/vvvhiy8m8nauhwuf
- [X] Thomas: Arrange face2face meeting with Linda
- [X] Alexandre: Follup-up on SNOW issue / escalation 
- [X] Peter: Look for {\bf Q} as in \qbold in e-neutrons MathJax config and communicate to Alexandre
- [X] Thomas: Document progress report location (https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Submitted%20Deliverables/D1.2%20Mid-Year%20Summary%20Report/2019/PaNOSC_D1.2_Mid-Year%20Summary_20190528.pdf)
- [X] Thomas: Add Linda to Jira board / check that relevant Linda Udby account (without '2') is allowed access - two exist??
- [X] Peter: Recover script for URL-modification on moodle course "packages" (.mbz) and investigate usability
- [X] Linda: Formulate email request about mail access to ESS (send to Alexandre)
- [X] Alexandre: Submit the above to SNOW
- [X] Thomas: Draft joint plan with WP4 and 5, incl. requirements for Jupyter integration (see minutes of relevant meeting)
- [X] Peter: Evaluate latest stable MediaWiki with remaining e-neutrons platform (essentials, e.g. LDAP support)
- [X] Thomas: Write WP8 progress report
- [x] Linda: Create new version of the Tartu course for Tommy
- [x] Peter: Check moodle support for user-defined PREFIX variables (mediawiki-links)
- [x] Linda: Communicate contact information for Tommy wrt. deployment of stand-alone MediaWiki @ ESS to Jesper
- [x] Develop requirement document for Jupyter integration in e-learning platform. Jesper initiated a shared document.
- [x] How will budget allocated for videos in PaNOSC be managed? Thomas to raise the question at PMB.    
- [x] Jesper: Define milestones deadlines and due dates for stories. May 8, 2019
- [x] Thomas: Invite other to VC in to our weekly meetings on WP8 email list and make them aware of the minutes.
- [x] Thomas: ask Jordi to add Mads to Wp5 list.
- [x] Jesper: Upload minutes from last meeting.
- [x] Thomas: Bring up the question about the google calendar at next PMB meeting
- [x] Peter: Provide snippet for how to embed calendar.
        This [calendar snippet](snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html) should be visible via [this link](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html)

