
**Note**: *This meeting (June 30, 2020) concluded a meeting on June 24, 2020, and this summary therefore relates to both meeting (June 24 and 30).*

Participants
------------

* Thibaud, SOLEIL
* Florian, ELI
* Nazare, SOLEIL (only June 30)
* Guiseppe, EGI (only first few minutes June 30)
* Oliver, HZDR (only June 30)
* Thomas, ESS

Agenda
------
* PaNOSC review
* Should we orgnize multiple online workshops
* Compute resources for e-learning platform
* Review suggestion for workshops + how to get content in the platform + how to get participants
* ESS plans for PaNOSC (incl resources)
* ELI plans for PaNOSC (incl resources

Summary
-------

**PaNOSC review**

Florian and Thomas gave an update of the PaNOSC review. They both generally found that the review was useful but also noted that there 
was some critisism of WP8 that seemed to be based on higher expectations at this point in time than actually planned. It was also noted 
that it was questioned why pan-learning.org is closed, which Thomas only could agree to. Peter has since worked on opening up the library
of external training resources to the extend possible. This was completed June 30. Some material cannot be legally opened due to license
issues. In the cases, where the course developers in the past have given permission to use the material in the e-neutrons.org, Peter will
inform them about the latest developments so that the get an opportunity to object.

**Should we organize multiple online workshops**

We are all open to that idea to the extend that it makes sense.

**Compute resurces for e-learning platform**
Thomas mentioned that pan-learning.org was halting when simulations were performed it. Peter has requested more compute resources from the ESS 
and has received a positive reply. However, it emphasizes the need for getting the pan-learning.org hooked up to cloud resources. Jean (WP6) 
has previously approached the cloud providers for PaNOSC about this, but we haven't heard anything back. Therefore, Thomas should ask Andy if 
it is possible to try out AWS. Florian will also investigate the possibilities for using CESNET. Thomas should send Florian some requirements.

**Review suggestion for workshops, etc**
Jesper from Department of Science Education (DSE) at University of Copenhagen has drafted a plan for the two adjoint workshops to be held in the 
winter. His draft can be found here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XUnvlQgZDVisKXAHr3YReDlIbd5nETnrKfqV5ThoHCY/edit#heading=h.lt5bg8ibfpef
The draft was reviewed and it was generally agreed that it looked good. It prompted a discussion on who should participate and how to get content 
in the platform.

*Who should participate?*
Jesper (DSE) had suggested approximately 24 participants. It has previously been agreed in the Task Force that we should aim for 50% PaNOSC participants 
(i.e. data / computer scientists / IT professionals) and 50% scientists who engage with users of the partners. We should start to make a list of 
potential candidates

*How do we get content in the platform*
This was discussed at length and connects to whom should participate. The latter because it was found that some of the required content (according 
to grant agreements) could be developed as part of the workshops on how to develop material for pan-learning.org. It is therefore crucial scientist
participate. Moreover, it was agreed (June 26) that we should try to get WP leaders to provide training objectives for their specific work package. 
Thomas had drafted a letter between the two meetings that could be used to approach the wp leaders. It was agreed that Florian should review and edit 
and start a round robin. 

The ExPaNDS members pointed to the ELIXIR training portal (https://tess.elixir-europe.org/) as a model to be used for the P&N community. Everybody 
liked the organization, look-and-feel and intuitiveness of the portal. It was 
agreed that we should review it in more detail and that Thomas should approach his contact at EMBL in order to get a meeting organized where we can
learn more about the ELIXIR solution. Developers at ESS/ELI should evaluate the opportunities for reuse the ELIXIR solution in the context of 
pan-learning.org

A DEIC course on data management (https://vidensportal.deic.dk/en/RDMELearn) was located on the ELIXIR platform. It was agreed that everybody should
take the course (3 x 20 minutes) and evaluate it wrt inspiration for what we need to develop and possibly reuse it. 

*ESS plans for PaNOSC*
Thomas reported that ESS would try to combine remaining unused funding into funding for a post doc and in this way also compensate for the lack of 
qualified resources due to sickness. This requires Thomas to draft a project plan that account for ESS contributions to WP4, 5 and 8.

*ELI plans for PaNOSC*
Florian reported on how available resources at ELI can come into play. It was agreed that Florian should put ELI developers in contact with Peter
so that we can get started on upgrading the pan-learning.org. 

Links
-----
* [Draft plan for workshops on how to use pan-learning.org](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XUnvlQgZDVisKXAHr3YReDlIbd5nETnrKfqV5ThoHCY/edit#heading=h.lt5bg8ibfpef)
* [ELIXIR training portal](https://tess.elixir-europe.org/)
* [DEIC course on data management](https://vidensportal.deic.dk/en/RDMELearn)


Actions
-------
- [ ] Peter to inform contributors of materials to e-neutrons.org about the latest development and increased openness. 
- [ ] Peter to get pan-learning.org up running on additional hardware provided by ESS
- [ ] Thomas: Ask Andy for AWS resources
- [ ] Thomas: Send Florian requirements for CESNET
- [ ] Florian to investigate if we can used CESNET for pan-learning.org
- [ ] Thomas to seed list on potential participants in workshops on pan-learning.org
- [ ] Florian to review and edit drafted letter for WP leaders regarding training objectives and start round robin review process
- [ ] ***All***: Review ElIXIR solution in more detail. What can use and do we not need?
- [ ] Thomas: To contact EMBL in order to set up a meeting so that we can learn more about their solution. 
- [ ] Florian / Thomas: ask developers to review the ELIXIR solution in the context of pan-learning.org
- [ ] ***All*** try out the DEIC course on data management 
- [ ] Thomas: draft post doc project
- [ ] Florian: Organize meeting between ELI developers and Peter




