
# Participants

* Peter, DTU/ESS (remote)
* Thomas, ESS (remote)
* Alexandre, ESS (remote)
* Mads, ESS (remote)
* Torben, ESS (remote)

# Minutes

## Actions from last meeting

## Updates

### KPIs
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iivsvBrix4v6lmC2U3sOC6YEXFeY0JzXHTM9QQQZwiY/edit#gid=0

### Task force

https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/2020-05-05_TaskForce.md


### PaNOSC review
Overall very good review. Some mixed feedback on e-learning platform. Critical questions related to why it is not more open. Should accelerate that task


### AAI & cloud computing
Kareem working with Jean-Francois on integrating AAI in e-learning platform. Need to push for cloud computing resources

### Thomas and Peter had meeting with Jesper B and viktor
Input for workshops: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XUnvlQgZDVisKXAHr3YReDlIbd5nETnrKfqV5ThoHCY/edit#

# Actions
- [ ] Mads and Viktor: To discuss Jupyter-replacement of the iFitlab
- [ ] Thomas: Review obsoletion notice for old system
- [ ] Peter: Obsoletion-notice on the old system
- [ ] WP8: Find suggestions for rebranding-strategy (Due: March MM)
- [ ] Peter: Work on https://github.com/McStasMcXtrace/McWeb/issues/220
- [ ] Peter: Look for tools to check for broken / wrong links on the moodle-side

## From past meetings
- ~~[ ] DST: Look at iFitlab - formulate ticket (Likely Jupyter is the alternative, going forward)~~
- ~~[ ] Linda: Update development courses @e-neutrons.org to use ucph wiki, in progress. (awaiting Linda return)~~
- ~~[ ] Linda & Peter: Check which non-standard courses exist, to communicate new wiki and structure from January 2020 (awaiting Linda return)~~
- [X] Peter: Expose login on front-page
- [X] Thomas: setup meeting with Jean-Francois regarding AAI 
- [X] Alexandre:  Definition of "admin" (enrolment tasks etc.) and "user" mailinglists (for communication)
- [X] Peter: Check all frontpage links
- [X] Peter: Draft invitation-emails to PaNOSC WP8, existing e-neutrons users, general announcement
- [X] Alexandre: Add pan-learning.org
- [X] Thomas: Set up meeting for workshop-taskforce
- [X] Peter: Test e-neutrons.esss.dk site
- [X] Thomas: Ensure ESS staff is on WP8 mailinglist (in progress - potentially migrate to ESS-driven mailman list)
- [X] Thomas: Make next week meeting the joined PaNOSC-ExPANDS meeting (18/3 14:30)
- [X] Thomas: Invite Jesper from UCPH-IND to a future meeting
- [X] Alexandre: In march, check with Jesper about ESS-run PaNOSC-mailinglist(s)
- [X] Alexandre: Once Peter has tested the new site thoroughly, will migrate MediaWiki content from ucph wiki to the new system.
- [X] Mads: Communicate event dates for WP5 meeting in Hamburg to Peter and Erik(DTU) (indication: Late march/early april)
- [X] Alexandre: Check if Cite and CrossRef mediawiki plugins are installed and if they seem to work (ex: https://ucphmediawiki.esss.dk/ucph/index.php/The_scattering_cross_section_for_phonons). In progress. It does look like this was also not working at original site i.e. [[Diffraction from crystals#label-eq:diffraction_DW|this equation]] used in place of \ref{eq:diffraction_DW}
- [X] Thomas: Put up doodle for monthly WP8 meeting
- [X] Thomas: Follow up with Brian wrt. 'user-transferral'
- [X] Thomas: Put up doodle for WP8 face2face meeting in CPH
- [X] Peter: Ask Brian/Jesper for link / specs for beefy node discussed. (Purchase not possible under PaNOSC)
- [X] Thomas: Get Brian and Ari to discuss issue of 'user-transferral' from existing e-neutrons
- [X] Peter: Communicate with ELI wrt. Jhub (Jakub) on status
- [X] Peter: Ask LTI-jupyter bridge developers about option to return data from Jupyter to Moodle (https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator/issues/28)
- [X] Kareem, Alexandre & Peter: Define milestones for e-neutrons migration (VC on Thursday Dec 5th 11:00?)
- [X] Peter: Try out https://github.com/jupyterhub/ltiauthenticator according to https://moodle.org/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=362641 for investigation of Moodle <-> Jupyter via LTI. in progress (Lottie Greenwood will assist in deployment of a Jupyter before end of November)
- [X] Thomas: Invite Fredrik to this meeting series
- [X] PaNOSC GA: WP5+8 try to schedule meeting for 3h Wednesday morning, including public demo of e-neutrons at end
- [X] In October 10th PaNOSC VC, decide if there is basis for WP8 meeting in Trieste
- [X] All: Consider attendance in Annual Meeting (4th-5th of November in Trieste)
- [X] Thomas: Organise telco with all WP8 participants in prep of Annual Meeting - in prep. doodle link: https://doodle.com/poll/vvvhiy8m8nauhwuf
- [X] Thomas: Arrange face2face meeting with Linda
- [X] Alexandre: Follup-up on SNOW issue / escalation 
- [X] Peter: Look for {\bf Q} as in \qbold in e-neutrons MathJax config and communicate to Alexandre
- [X] Thomas: Document progress report location (https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Submitted%20Deliverables/D1.2%20Mid-Year%20Summary%20Report/2019/PaNOSC_D1.2_Mid-Year%20Summary_20190528.pdf)
- [X] Thomas: Add Linda to Jira board / check that relevant Linda Udby account (without '2') is allowed access - two exist??
- [X] Peter: Recover script for URL-modification on moodle course "packages" (.mbz) and investigate usability
- [X] Linda: Formulate email request about mail access to ESS (send to Alexandre)
- [X] Alexandre: Submit the above to SNOW
- [X] Thomas: Draft joint plan with WP4 and 5, incl. requirements for Jupyter integration (see minutes of relevant meeting)
- [X] Peter: Evaluate latest stable MediaWiki with remaining e-neutrons platform (essentials, e.g. LDAP support)
- [X] Thomas: Write WP8 progress report
- [x] Linda: Create new version of the Tartu course for Tommy
- [x] Peter: Check moodle support for user-defined PREFIX variables (mediawiki-links)
- [x] Linda: Communicate contact information for Tommy wrt. deployment of stand-alone MediaWiki @ ESS to Jesper
- [x] Develop requirement document for Jupyter integration in e-learning platform. Jesper initiated a shared document.
- [x] How will budget allocated for videos in PaNOSC be managed? Thomas to raise the question at PMB.    
- [x] Jesper: Define milestones deadlines and due dates for stories. May 8, 2019
- [x] Thomas: Invite other to VC in to our weekly meetings on WP8 email list and make them aware of the minutes.
- [x] Thomas: ask Jordi to add Mads to Wp5 list.
- [x] Jesper: Upload minutes from last meeting.
- [x] Thomas: Bring up the question about the google calendar at next PMB meeting
- [x] Peter: Provide snippet for how to embed calendar.
        This [calendar snippet](snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html) should be visible via [this link](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html)
