Participants
-
* Vincent (ESRF)
* Peter (ESS)
* Fredrik (ESS)
* Thomas (ESS)
* Danielle (ESS)
* Oliver (HZDR)
* Nazar√© (SOLEIL)
* Thibaud (SOLEIL)
* Teodor (ELI)
* Florian (ELI)



Agenda
-
* Organization of annual meeting


Minutes
-

Florian presented the objectives and schedule for the annual meeting. The plan is to have 20 mins presentation followed by 20 mins discussion for each ExPaNDS/PaNOSC WP. In the joint session for WP5/WP8 we should present
1. Progress
1. Dependencies on other work packages
1. Plans for engagement with users
1. Roadmap 

### 1. Progress

We should present what has been done in each project and jointly. The WP leaders should draft some slides for this

#### PaNOSC
Present what has been don on pan-learning.org
* Jupyter integration
* Federated AAI


#### ExPaNDS
Seminar on FAIR data


#### Jointly
Alignment of plans. 

**TODO** Realign due to extension of ExPaNDS duration (Thibaud & Thomas)
**TODO** Draft slides for done work (Thibaud & Thomas)


###  2. Dependencies on other work packages

* The training work packages rely heavily on the other work packages
* ExPaNDS has started discussions with work packages and PaNOSC has drafted a letter. We should circulate this letter so that we can get some feedback before the annual meeting and discuss that. 
* We have received a few Jupyter notebooks from WP5 that we can play around with, one for photons and one for neutrons. We can show that as an example.
* An open question is how we feed content into our portal / platform?

**TODO** Draft slides for this section (Florian)


### 3. Plans for engagement with users
* We should give an overview of existing training. ExPaNDS will try to collect information from partners beforehand, which can be added to the list in the [github repository](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/TrainingMaterials)


# WORK IN PROGRESS 


* Plans for engagement with users:
    * Overview of existing training 
    * Past examples
    * Overview of events
        * Online - f2f
    * We should update joint Gantt chart beforehand
    * Platform will be used to promote training material for specific techniques (goes beyond existing project)

* Joint work and seperate work 
    * Work on pan-learning.org
    * Started to develop a joint plan

* Engagement with users
* Engagement with surrounding world
* Roadmap for next  (Thomas)
    * Give a picture of where we want to be in 12 months
    * Sustainability aspects

How will we continue beyond end of project

Ask audience


LETTER:
* Send letter to panosc (cc: thibaud & Nazarre)





