Participants
------------

* Andy, ESRF
* Jordi, ESRF
* Thibaud, SOLEIL (ExPaNDS)
* Vincent, ESRF
* Nicoletta, CERIC
* Peter, ESS
* Mads, ESS
* Juncheng, XFEL
* Florian, ELI (part time)

plus several others who tried to join unsuccessfully


Agenda
------

Agenda:
1. Updates on Task 8.1 (migration of e-learning platform)
1. Design for new e-learning platform
1. Updates from ExPaNDS
1. Review milestones & deliverables
   * Should we make a joint plan for ExPaNDS & PaNOSC?
1. How we will proceed with central person being on sick leave
1. Covid-19: How to manage face-to-face meetings and workshops during the pandemic
   * Cancel doodle?
1. AoB


Minutes
-------

**Task 8.1**

Peter gave a status report. Only thing missing now is a welcome page and to get it running under the pan-learning.org. AAI, 
single sign on, and connection to EOSC was discussed, where a EOSC meeting in Amsterdam was supposed to give some input. Due 
to COVID-19 this meeting was cancelled. ESS will get in contact with Jean-Francois about this matter. The e-learning platform 
is running on a virtual machine at ESS. Access to ESS cluster and cloud computing resources should be setup.

**Design for new e-learning platform**
Thomas mentioned that we need a design for the e-learning platform and Florian confirmed that ELI probably could do this. The 
work probably boils down to working CCS according. Florian and Thomas  will discuss in seperate meeting how to proceed. 


**Updates from ExPaNDS**
Nothing to report. Waiting for e-learning platform to be ready for use. 

**Milestones and deliverables**
Overview can be found [in this excel document](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Plans/Deliverables_Milestones_and_InternalMilestones.xlsx)
Apart from MS8.3 concluding Task 8.1 there are no immediate milestones or deliverables. However, we had an internal milestone 
IMS8.2 related to finding a solution for how to integrate Jupyter. Peter has looked into that and found a potential solution. Integration of
instruments for other facilities than ESS will need to happen in collaboration with WP5.

**Joint plan for ExPaNDS and PaNOSC**
Consensus that it would be a good idea to make a joint ExPaNDS-PaNOSC plan. Thibaud and Thomas will work on that.

**How to proceed with central person being absent**
Peter and Thomas has talked to a staff member from Department of Science Education, UCPH, who was involved the e-learning platform 
early on and a research assistant from the Niels Bohr Institute, UCPH, who also have worked a lot with the e-learning platform. 
They would be happy to jointly help with and run the workshops required for this work package. Everybody were very pleased to hear
that. Copenhagen face-to-face meeting will be cancelled due to COVID-19, instead a task force composed of Thibaud (ExPANDS), Florian 
(ELI), Thomas and Peter (ESS) will work with the UCPH staff on the organization of the workshop. Vincent can join if he has the time 
for it. 

**How to proceed with COVID-18**
Doodle will be cancelled. Many expressed good experiences with Zoom and not so good experiences with Vidyo, so we will use Zoom 
for future meetings until decided otherwise.

**AoB**
Andy has been looking for teaching material on FAIR principles for PhD students. Thomas asked for link so that it could be added 
to the [list of existing teaching material](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/TrainingMaterials/urls.md)


**Actions**
- [ ] Thomas to setup meeting for planning of workshops
- [ ] Thomas and Thibaud to make joint plan for ExPaNDS WP5 and PaNOSC WP8
- [ ] Thomas and Florian to discuss how to proceed with redesign of e-learning platform
- [ ] Andy to send teaching material to Thomas or add to [list of existing teaching material](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/TrainingMaterials/urls.md)
