## Participants

* Florian
* Thibaud
* Thomas
* Uwe

## Review of tasks from past meeting
* Florian confirmed that colleagues from ELI Beamlines are, in principle, willing to engage in the front-end work of the platform.
* Florian has identified a person willing to work on the Jupyter integration. He will connect Peter and this person. He's also discuss with that person whether he could address the other technical tasks communicated by Peter.
* Thomas has reached out to Victor and Jesper to discuss the organization of the PaNOSC workshop. He's still waiting on them to respond.

### Workshops: comparison of PaNOSC and ExPaNDS work plans
* Review of [Gantt chart](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JLaH1ANBaKX_beNDmi5wsmbRZkx902mU6A0_HvBvY9Q/edit?ts=5ea7f16d&urp=gmail_link#gid=0) prepared by Thibaud
* ExPaNDS have 6 workshops anticipated, whereas only 2 are referred to in the PaNOSC DoW. Thibaud explained that the logic within ExPaNDS is to have national training events to minimise travel costs.
* One of the tasks in ExPaNDS' WP5 involves reviewing and choosing suitable solutions for their platform. There is a basic assumption that ExPaNDS will rely on the platform developed within PaNOSC. This should be confirmed with the coordinators.
* Thomas will update the Gantt chart and add the milestones (including internal)Â for PaNOSC for a complete picture.
* One of the open question is the level of synchronization between the two WPs for the organization of workshops. This will be discussed with the coordinators and also re-visited once the Gantt chart is complete. In general, there is agreement that synergies should be used as much as possible (either by co-designing / sharing training content or organizing joint workshops).
* The first workshop for ExPaNDS will take place in September. It will be on the FAIR principles. The content will be available in August. Brian Matthews is working on this. There is expectation to use reference data for the workshop. Thibaud will sync with Brian to check the requirements for this 1st workshop as far as the platform is concerned. Florian will inform Andy about this activity as this is relevant for WP2.
* For PaNOSC, Thomas indicates that Linda will not be availble until at least September. Thomas should have more input from Jesper and Victor at the next meeting.

## Review of available online courses
* See second sheet [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1JLaH1ANBaKX_beNDmi5wsmbRZkx902mU6A0_HvBvY9Q/edit?ts=5ea7f16d&urp=gmail_link#gid=0)
* Thibaud is checking with national facilities (Thibaud mentioned a course developed by Soleil, only available in French). The collection of courses linked on pan-learning.org should also be checked and incorporated in the list.

## Miscellaneous
* Thomas will share an email he received from EOSC Live calling for more coordination among cluster projects on training activities.
* Thomas confirms that PaNOSC's internal milestone "first facility-specific course integrated" has been fulfilled. Florian will confirm this to Jordi, who was inquiring about the status of the milestone during a recent PMC meeting.
* Florian mentions the sustainability of the platform as another topic that should be discussed with the coordinators. Sustainability should be understood from various perspectives: operation and maintenance of the platform, promotion and adoption by users, provision of training content, etc.

## Next meeting:
* Date of next joint WP meeting to be decided once the call with the coordinators has taken place.

Tasks
- [ ] Florian to connect Peter with person available for Jupyter integration
- [ ] Florian to confirm availability of colleagues from ELI Beamlines for front-end work
- [ ] Thomas to follow up with Jesper and Victor
- [ ] Thomas to update Gantt chart and add PaNOSC's missing data
- [ ] Thibaud to ask Brian Matthews for technical requirements for first ExPaNDS training workshop on FAIR
- [ ] Florian to inform Andy about this first workshop to explore synergies with PaNOSC's WP2
- [ ] ALL to review table of available online courses
- [ ] Florian to reach out to ExPaNDS and PaNOSC coordinators to schedule joint call (May 11th and May 18th afternoon to be considered)

