
Agenda
=

1. **Time for biweekly regular meetings.** Is this a good time for everybody for having biweekly meetings?
1. **Workshop for staff training.** We have two teachers lined up, but we still need participants and to schedule when and where. Online?
1. **Letter to WP leaders.** Florian and I have drafted a paper for PaNOSC WP leaders asking for input out WP8 tasks. We can go through the letter
1. **pan-learning.org updates.** Brief update from ESS. 
1. **ELEXIR training platform.** Some of us had a meeting with the management team of the ELIXIR training platform. What are the take-away messages?
1. **AoB**


Participants
=
* Oliver (HZDR)
* Uwe (HZDR)
* Nazar√© (SOLEIL)
* Thibaud (SOLEIL)
* Florian (ELI)
* Nicoletta (CERIC)
* Fredrik (ESS)
* Danielle (ESS)
* Thomas (ESS)
* Guiseppe (EGI)

Absent: Peter (ESS)

Minutes
=

1 Time for biweekly regular meetings
-
Friday 10 am worked for everybody, so this will be the time for the future biweekly meetings. However, next meeting will be Wednesday 7th October 9 am (see later)

2 Workshop for staff training
-
Training workshops are scheduled for November/December (Part 1) and in the Spring (Part 2). We need to move the workshop for staff training online. Thomas has tried to confer with the teacher but he is first available next week. It was suggested to check with the organizers from Diamond and ESS/ILL on distribution lists and setup in Zoom, following the successful online meetings for FairsFair workshop and ESS-ILL user meeting. Both meetings had 60+ participants over several days with active participation and in-session surveys to provide feedback, as well as discussions in break out room
**TODO** Contact organizers at DLS. 

3 Letter to WP leaders
-
Everybody should read and annotate / make changes to the word document circulated by Danielle. Provide feedback before next meeting so that we can follow-up at that meeting and circulate it to WP leaders in both PaNOSC and ExPaNDS. We can then follow up at the annual meeting
**TODO** Everybody. Review draft for letter to WP leaders (Deadline Tuesday Oct 6)

4 pan-learning.org updates
-
Peter reported via Thomas that development of prototype Jupyter-interface with nbgrading / llumiDesk notebook-grading well under way (Sebastian). Aim is to have a demonstration-video within 1-2 weeks.

Status: 95 users have accounts on the pan-learning.org system, e-neutron.org has has 1471. We are preparing deprecation of the e-neutrons.org site/platform in favour of pan-learning.org, this should give a nice influx of users.

SOLEIL has started to assess the options for providing a portal for training material and are discussing their results as well as their requirements in a [Google document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/123RyuQW9LkORI9wCyz5Mw5iB85Bug7ZBcIlmE8kVPyw/edit?usp=sharing_eil&ts=5f771b66). In this regard they raised concerns about GDPR compliance for pan-learning.org. Thomas emphasized that the platform of course has to be GDPR compliant and fixed if that is not the case.
**TODO** Ensure that pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant
**TODO** read google document

The training courses calendar on panosc.eu needs to be updated - Nicoletta will check up on this.
**TODO** Check up on panosc.eu calendar

For the training material there are two tracks, 
1. Develop something specifically for pan-learning.org (i.e. an e-larning course making use of Moodle, Wiki, Jupyter, and simulation platform). This is an objective of PaNOSC
1. Collect existing material (external material) and provide a userfriendly interface for that  This is an objective of ExPaNDS

SOLEIL suggests to 'decouple' the training material from the e-learning platform and have a common 'portal' that links to both. This is described in the aforementioned document. 

In principle pan-learning.org allows for both although the [existing library](https://pan-learning.org/moodle/course/view.php?id=6) is not easy to find and courses could be presented better and in a more homogenous way. (There is also a [filtering function](https://pan-learning.org/moodle/course/) but seems to be only for the built-in courses). 

Thomas suggested that ExPaNDS send him some examples of courses that they would like to see in a library, then he would try to get them into pan-learning.org to get an idea of how that would work. 
**TODO** Send examples of courses to Thomas
**TODO** Make examples of courses available in pan-learning.org

Thomas also mentioned that he would appreciate is somebody would come up with a design suggestion for the pan-learning.org side. ExPaNDS emphasized the need for them to contribute without being reliant on a central person. 
**TODO** Investigate how ExPaNDS can get access to upload their own material to the library and develop courses
**TOD** Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org 

Oliver will be able to contribute to the development of pan-learning.org and should be invited to technical meeting. 
**TODO** Thomas to invite Oliver to the technical meetings with Fredrik, Peter, and Sebastian

5 Elixir training platform
-
Some members had a meeting with the Elixir training platform. The take-home-message was that it requires resources and people responsible for providing content. 

All asked to take a look at https://elixir.mf.uni-lj.si/ and present feedback at next meeting.
*TODO* Have a look at the elixir e-learning platform

The Elixir platform may be used as model for the EOSC training platform.

6 AoB
-
We agreed to have a follow-up meeting for this discussion **7th October at 9 am** with a focus on the upcoming annual meeting. 

Actions
=
- [ ] *Peter* Ensure pan-learning.org is GDPR compliant (*Deadline: ASAP*)
- [ ] Contact organizers of FAIRsFAIR to learn about their experiences with organizing a workshop, which can be used for developing the online workshop for staff training
- [ ] *Everybody* review letter drafted by Florian and Thomas (*Deadline Oct 6*). Follow-up discussion on Oct 7 meeting
- [ ] *Nicoletta* check up on calendar on panosc.eu
- [ ] *Thibaud* Send examples of courses to Thomas (*Deadline Oct 5* - if possible)
- [ ] *Peter* Make examples available in pan-learning.org library (*Deadline Oct 7 9 am* - if possible)
- [ ] *Thomas & Peter* Investigate how ExPaNDS can get access to upload their own material to the library and develop courses
- [ ] *Everybody* Come up with design suggestions for pan-learning.org
- [ ] *Peter* invite Oliver to technical meetings
- [ ] *Everybody* Have a look at the [ELIXIR e-learning platform](https://elixir.mf.uni-lj.si)




