PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 27/05/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS), Ornela(CERIC), Rudolf (ESRF), Petra (ESS), Roberto (CERIC), Carsten (XFEL), Dario (CERIC) and Florian (ELI)


Minutes
-------	

Jordi started by saying that with the end of May taking place this week this meeting will focus on the main items to deliver: the deliverables (due end of May) and the draft Mid-term report that we will send to our PO Tuesday 2nd June.

**1. Update on deliverables**

Jordi reported that *D1.2b Mid-year Summary* is pretty much completed. He thanked everyone that contributed and explain that after review and applying the template it was now on Andy's hands for a last final quick read. Once this is done it will be submitted (most probably 28th May). Jordi also explained that he doesn't think a zenodo DOI is required for this document, however it will be available in https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Deliverables once submitted.

Andy reported that *D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework* has been submitted. He thanked everyone that collaborated and ExPaNDS and Nicoletta in particular. He also noted that there have been plenty of views and downloads in Zenodo. He finished by saying that the next big step now is to adopt it. The deliverable is available here: https://www.panosc.eu/news/panosc-updates-research-data-policy-framework-to-be-fair/

Jordi reported that *D3.1 API definition* has been submitted. Tobias thanked everyone that contributed. Andy asked whether the software release for the Search API will be made available in Zenodo (this is possible by having a release in GitHub that is linked from Zenodo). Tobias agreed to look into that and most probably will also give a DOI to the report.

Jordi reported that *D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service* has been submitted. Hans noted that this deliverable is confidential and that maybe later it will be made avaialble, but not immediately.

Jean-François reported that work on *D6.1 Data-Hub* is very advanced and that he is just applying the template, so everything will be ready today. He complained about a well known problem with working on Google Docs and then having to reapply the template manually before submitting. Jean-François also said that most probably he will give a DOI to this deliverable.

Jordi reported that *D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks* is ready, pending a final proofread by Andy before submission. Ornela said that she doesn't think a DOI for this document would be useful.


**2. Update on [draft report to PO](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit?dls=true)**

All the attendees looked together at the document and Jordi reminded everyone to contribute by Friday morning as the document will be shared with our Project Officer Tuesday 2nd May (and Monday 1st is bank holiday in France). Andy also asked that in sections 5.1 and 5.2 each WP leader to write something if they feel it is applicable to them.


**3. EOSC Assessment for phase 1: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1JS-QSH0S6gygDVuDsiuPqExpJB6hHXSpUHEicO8Ifx8/edit?usp=sharing**

Andy asked everyone to contribute as we should provide feedback to the EOSC. This was followed by a short discussion on the EOSC Core, as different working groups have different views.


















