PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 04/12/2019
========================================================


Present
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Knut (ExPaNDS), Sophie (ExPaNDS), Jean-Francois (ILL), Juncheng (XFEL), Petra (ESS),
Thomas (ESS), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Florian (ELI-DC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC)

Minutes
-------	


**1. Process, formats and timescales for submitting deliverables** 

Jordi thanked everyone that collaborated with the deliverables and milestones that were due end of November. Once again we managed
to submit high quality deliverables and milestones on time.  Jordi added that many items were received very last minute, so he 
proposed to provide files for final approval at least one week in advance (so proper validation and exchanges can take place), and 
that the final files are shared in MS Word document (when it is a report) with the appropriate template being used. Once submitted
the final deliverable and documents supporting a milestone should be added to GitHub (*[Submitted Deliverables](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Deliverables)* and *[Submitted Milestones](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Milestones)*). 

Rudolf suggested to extend the period to two weeks and to send reminders, so finally it was agreed that:
    + WP1 will remind WP Leaders and PMC attendees 4 weeks before the deliverable/milestone is due
    + WP Leader will provide the final version (from the WP point of view) of the deliverable to WP1 Leader at least 2 weeks before the due date in MS Word format
    + This will enable enough time for the finnal validation and submision
    
**2. M18 - Plenty of deliverables + mid-term report**

Jordi explained that in M18 we have plenty of deliverables and milestones due, far more than last November. This is likely to cause issues in order to validate before submitting in the EC Portal. On top of that, it is scheduled that a review meeting will take place with our Project Officer, which will add to the workload.

In order to ensure that we can do deliver, Jordi asked if any planned deliverable could be advanced:
* D2.1 -> Andy committed to have the final deliverable ready by the end of March
* D3.1 -> Tobias was absent, therefore an answer will be expected on the next PMC
* D4.2 -> Hans was absent, therefore an answer will be expected on the next PMC
* D6.1 -> Jean-Francois said that it is too early to say, but mid-May should be possible (as per point 1 above)
* D7.1 -> Roberto could not commit at the time, so he will provide an answer for the next PMC

Jordi then explained that the review meeting is upcoming and it is not very clear to him what will need to be prepared or not. 
Jordi thus briefly explained what our project Officer (Rene Martins) has communicated:
* The review is done by the PO with the assistance of an external experte (a "monitor")
* The monitor is selected by the PO and can only be rejected by the consortium in business grounds (e.g. conflict of interest)
* The PO would prefer to have the review meeting in M19 (June) once everything of M18 has been submitted
* The minimum configuration for the review meeting is: COO, WP leaders, PO and monitor. Task leaders could be invited too if required
* The meeting is usually structured along the WPs, with the management/admin usually the last one, to server as buffer just in case.

Andy then explained that this review meeting will take place in Brussels and asked all WP leaders to confirm what is their availability for the 2nd half of June 2020. Andy explained that Tiziana (EGI) suggested him to have some demos prepared for the review meeting, to which Jordi added that we should have something to demo in WP4 (some services available), WP6 (AAI or data transfer) and WP8 (pan-learning.org up and running).

Florian explained, that there is nothing special that needs to be reported prior to the review meeting, however it is a very good moment to discuss ammendments (if required). Florian also said that often is the "monitor" who does the bulk of the review work. For example, if PaNOSC would be underspending at the time, may be interesting to propose ammendments to solve the issue.

Jordi said that if required, he could ask all partners to provide financial information early May covering the period up to the end of April, so another Internal Financial Report could be produced. The idea was welcome, and a new Internal Milestone for WP1 will be created for a 2nd Internal Financial Report.


**3. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

* WP1 Management
   * Jordi explained that he plans to start before the end of January work on the Risks (new guidelines have been received from the Executive Board) and KPIs. He also thanked everyone that shared information to support the creation of KPIs. Jordi also reminded the partners that there were Internal Milestones due end of November and some more in December.
   
* WP2 Data Policy and stewardship
    * Andy explained that Rudolf (ESRF) will now be more available to work on PaNOSC and that he will be supporting WP2, but if
there is any other need please let us know. He is starting to review the Data Policy framework very soon. No work on DMPs has taken place though.

* WP3 Data Catalogue Services
    * Tobias was absent, no news
    
* WP4 Data Analysis Services
    * Hans was absent, no news
    
* WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-Ray Laboratory (VINYL)
    * Juncheng explained that a Simulation Services (IMS) is behind schedule due to the ESRF person in charge being not available. Jordi explained that Manolo is on sabbatical and not due to be back to the ESRF until June 2020. It was agreed that we will try to find an email address to contact him.
    * Andy said that the ILL has an open position for WP5, to which Jean-Francois added that more info about the vacancy can be obtained by contacting Paolo Mutti.
    * Andy also explained that CERIC staff is meeting ESRF's OASYS Power Users.
    * Juncheng finished his intervention by sharing a planned face to face meeting for WP5 (WP8 may attend too), likely around April 2020
    
* WP6 EOSC Integration
    * Jean-Francois said that there was very little to report. KPIs have been validated and the pilots are ongoing:
    * The Data Transfer  pilot is due to be completed by the end of the year
    * The AAI is having a config problem and Jean-Francois is awaiting help from Geant
    * Andy suggested (and it was accepted) to add a KPI for cold storage (we should have 1PB already)
    
* WP7 Sustainability
    * Roberto will email a list of suggested internal milestones and KPIs to Jordi 
    * There was today (04/12) a meeting of WP7, with the next meeting planned for 16/12 at 10:30h
    * Andy asked what work was ongoing and Roberto replied that the stakeholder database is ongoing, collecting email address and that surveys will be proposed for users.
    
* WP8 User Training
    * Thomas reported a meeting planned for December with ExPaNDS (Florian is invited to join) and a survery from ExPaNDS regarding their training WP.
    * Thomas said that is still awaiting to know how will be the contacts from ESRF and ILL for the WP.
    * Andy explained that he talked with the Hercules School, who told him that there are things he added to e-neutrons. Thomas replied that he will check if there is content related to "photons" as well for the next meeting.
    
* WP9 Outreach and Communication
    * Nicoletta explaiend that he is having updates and videos for the website, however she is stil awaiting feedback from partners for one of the WP9 internal milestones.
    * Nicoletta verified as well that the material sent has been received by the ESRF and ILL.
    * Work is ongoing on adapting the ILL DOI video, with the source content obtained and the company that created the video contacted, however it is unlikely that it will be ready for February (ESRF's User Meeting)
    * Nicoletta is also in touch with the ExPaNDS communication representative (from DIAMOND)
    
* ExPaNDS
    * Knut introduced Sophie, the new Project Manager for ExPaNDS. She will be working very closely with Knut and is invited to PaNOSC's PMC meetings.
    * Knut also said that ExPaNDS mailing lists are being created soon and people will be asked to join them.
    
    
**4. News from other proposals and events**

Andy explained that FAIRsFAIR is providing 10K euros, but it is not clear what we need to do for them and for the data repository certification.
Andy attended the EOSC Stakeholders meeting 24th to 28th November and explained that:
    * Clusters shared taht there is no official channel for clusters to give feedback for the EOSC
    * EOSC EB has received the position papers
    * Clusters are worried that the EOSC could end up beings just re-labelling of what is already existing
    * EOSC Board - Governance Working Group will change the way is organised
    * There may be a *Hackathon* between clusters for technical people (HDF5, Jupyter, etc.) 

