PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 09/10/2019
========================================================


Present
-------
 Jordi (ESRF), Andy(ESRF), Axel(ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Florian (ELI-DC), Juncheng (XFEL), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC),
 Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Knut (ExPaNDS), Petra (ESS) and Thomas (ESS)

Minutes
-------	

1. Issues https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
* Concrete cooperation with ExPaNDS : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46
    * Jordi, Knut and Patrick are trying to sort out a date for an initial meeting (planned now for 23rd October). Knut is awaiting
feedback from his WP leaders this week and Jordi will ask WP leaders for feedback/ideas for the collaboration.
* Internal milestones : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43
    * Jordi explained that Tobias shared info about the WP3 internal milestones. WP7 internal milestones are still missing.
    * Jordi will create a single document listing all Tasks, Deliverables, Milestones and Internal Milestones
* KPIs : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41
    * Jordi acknowledge that he didn't do anything there
* Financial control report : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/45
    * Jordi thanked everyone for sending the information. Only 3rd linked parties to EGI are still pending to send the info.
    * Jordi will share the raw data with everyone together with the methodology used. Florian pointed out that it is important to
know not only how we are spending but also what target spending is coming up and Jordi confirmed that this information will be 
provided as well. 
    * Jordi will present the results during the Annual Meeting in Trieste
* Can any of the other issues be closed?
    * There are several issues open, candidates to be closed are (#22 Mailing list)[https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22] and (#9 Observers Status)[https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9]
* No one wanted to raise any new issue/concern

3. News from other proposals and events
* FAIRsFAIR data repository certification
    * Andy said that we are awaiting feedback from FAIRsFAIR. 
* Invitation to a joint EOSC project meeting on 9-10 September 2019 in Brussels
    * Andy said the following documents have been shared following the meeting: (final report)[https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/news-opinion/eosc-concertation-report-public]
* ExPaNDs kick-off meeting 11-12 September in Hamburg
    * ExPaNDS is creating mailing lists, some of us will be added/asked to join
* ICALEPCS
    * Andy explained that ICALEPCS is being attended by Hans, Tobias and Andy. Our paper has been accepted, so we have a publication
Hans explained that he has done a presentation about hte Jupyter paper, so we may have two publications. Also, he shared news of 
initiatives about FAIR/Open data in Japan.
Andy also explained that somebody asked a question about the fact that sample information is very important in order to understand the 
experiment data and ensure the data can be understood and he was wondering whether we are doing enough in there.
* [EOSC Strategic Implementation Plan](https://publications.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/78ae5276-ae8e-11e9-9d01-01aa75ed71a1) document
* EOSC-hub SB meeting on 26 September in Brussels and [EOSC-hub Briefing paper](https://www.eosc-hub.eu/sites/default/files/EOSC-hub%20Briefing%20Paper%20-%20EOSC%20Federating%20Core%20Governance%20and%20Sustainability%20Public_0.pdf)
    * Andy explained the paper is an important document towards defining EOSC.
* Invitation to cluster meeting @ RDA (12:00-16:00 on 21 October in Helsinki)
    * Andy explained that Ornela is going to represent PaNOSC.

* There is a new event coming up 24th to 28th November in Budapest: The (EOSC Stakeholders meeting)[https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/eosc-symposium]

4. Annual conference in Trieste - update 

Dario reminded everyone to **register ahead of the deadline of 15th October**. So far we have 38 registered attendees.
It was recommended to email Dario directly to update the event (but Andy could also give permissions to WP leaders). Also, Dario will
share the list of registered attendees with WP leaders, so we can chase anyone that should have registered.
Dario talked about a round table with the Slovenian delegation **Dario, can you please EXPAND this?**

5. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems
* WP1 Management
    * Jordi has been focusing on the Financial Report and will share raw data this week. Also, some work on milestones and its
visibility
* WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship
    * Andy reported no news (still waiting for ILL contribution to lesson learned document)
* WP3 Data Catalog Services
    * Tobias was absent. Petra reported that Tobias would like to have permissions to modify the agenda for WP3 session in the 
annual meeting. Tobias also shared with Jordi a list of internal milestones.
    * Andy raised the topic of the API. WP3 is working in an API, but ideally everyone would be engage and participate on its
development/specification. **Jamie, can you please add link to confluence for API here?**
* WP4 Data Analysis Services
    * No news from Hans, but no worries regarding the deliverable due either. Survey was sent out and we are awaiting answers.
* WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory
    * Juncheng is working on the deliverable due end of November. He wants to talk with Thomas about WP8-WP5 joint work.
* WP6 EOSC Integration
    * Jamie reported work on the AAI pilot, which is not yet ready for the wider public.
* WP7 Sustainibility
    * Roberto was absent. Dario reported that Roberto is working on the internal milestones and these will be shared by the end
of the week. Dario also asked to be added to the WP7 mailing list which Jordi did.
* WP8 Staff training in data stewardship
    * Thomas reported talks with ExPaNDS and also work organising a meeting next year. **Thomas, can you please EXPAND this?**
Thomas also asked what to prepare for the Annual Meeting to which Andy said that he will clarify in the next PMC before the meeting.
* WP9 Outreach & Communication
    * Nicoletta reported website section updates and asked everyone that does a presentation about PaNOSC to share it with her so
she can upload it in the website. Also, interivews are online and roll-ups printed. Nicoletta asked everyone whether they know a 
woman in science that can provide info/interview on FAIR data or PaNOSC for the website.
Nicoleta suggested that we should target user meetings at our facilities to raise awareness and obtain feedback from users on the 
topics of FAIR data, PaNOSC and the EOSC. Jordi supported the idea and Knut said that it would be very nice to obtain good feedback
from users. Andy suggested to have a brainstorming at the Annual Meeting on actions to be carried out at Users Meetings.


