PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 15/07/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Ornela(CERIC), Florian (ELI-DC), Dario (CERIC), Sophie (ExPaNDS) 


Minutes
-------	


**1. Review Report status**

Jordi reported that the bulk of the work is done and Andy has asked for feedback/review of the contents added to the portal. Jordi and Andy thanked Nicoletta and Florian for providing some feedback. Jean-François said that he would provide feedback during the night / tomorrow.

Florian commented that the risk 14 should include a comment explaining the new measures to counter this risk.

Andy asked if people contributing to PaNOSC but not filling-in timesheets can be taken into account for the gender balance part and both Ornela and Florian replied no.

Florian also clarified that ELI-DC submitted the financial statement for its linked 3rd parties.

Nicoleta explained that the figure of 379000 for social media are the number of views/interactions and that it is explaiend in the technical report.

Andy also showed the preliminary dashboard for the internal financial report highlighting the fact that there are huge discrepancies between WPs at each partner. Sophie explained that for ExPaNDS there are dedicated meetings to tackle this kind of issue and it was agreed that PaNOSC should do something similar starting from september.

**2. CERIC-ERIC Financial report missing**

Jordi reported emails sent to Andrea (CERIC) in order to obtain a table that specifies PMs, actual cost, travel and subsitance and other direct costs per WP.
Other partners have sent this, however the info from CERIC-ERIC is still missing.

**3. Pending milestone (First release of PaNOSC services due 30th May)**

Jean-François reported that he hopes to have this done by the end of the week.

**4. Update from the WP Leaders**

Jordi reported work on the Periodic Report. He said that once he receives the missing information from CERIC-ERIC he will start working on a new Internal Financial Report.

Jordi and Andy will be on leave for a while, but Jordi will put together a doodle to check if there is enough attendance for a PMC meeting (to be chaired by Florian maybe?). Jordi also reminded the attendees of the upcoming milestones and internal milestones. For the WP without upcoming stuff it would be good to define internal milestones.

Andy reported that looking at the upcoming milestones WP2 is a bit behind, work on DMPs and adopting the data policy is coming up. Andy also noted that more work and effort is required in WP2.  Florian said that it could be a good idea to have the current status of all partners with regards to the DP.

There weren't any representatives from WP3, WP4 or WP5.

Jean-François reported that for AAI 50% of the service providers have been migrated and that he hopes to have the 100% by the end of the summer. Jean-François mentioned that he obtained green ligth to join EGIS (led by Géant and kind of an EOSC AAI). For the data transfer he reported that the ILL is ready for the archive test (ILL-STFC) and that it would now be possible to test Onedata with ILL data.

Following this, a brief conversation about WP6 leadership and ILL representatives at the PaNOSC PMC meetings followed.

Regarding WP7, Ornela reported that task 2 has started by looking at costs, comparing info and that there will be a meeting towards the end of August. Also, she reported that a new person from CERIC-ERIC will be available to help with Task 7.3 (Business Plan). Ornela said that the WP members will reflect on internal milestones and provide something, so the WP can be tracked.

Not related to WP7, Ornela said taht CERIC has hired Daniel Webster to follow the technical WPs (WP3, WP4, WP5 and WP6).

Florian reported that some action points in WP8 will be done before the end of July and that a training portal that is open source has been found, from which somethings could be reused.

Nicoletta reported a news item in the PaNOSC site about OSCovIDA and a remote user meeting for Solaris (9-11 september) where CERUC could introduce the PaNOSC data policy (however the deadline to submit abstracts is 2nd August).

Nicoletta said that the DOI video is almost ready, only ESS logo and LENS signature/approval is pending.


**5. EOSC Glossary **

Ornela talked about an EOSC Glossary that has been published and is open for feedback (at  https://docs.google.com/document/d/16Y7suCUzCguSWvAZuoeHk2HT40Q_kfDsuEyZsBxOSms/edit). Ornela will create a copy of it, collect feedback from PaNOSC partners and then we will add feedback as PaNOSC (rather than as RIs or individuals).

**6. AOB**

Andy said that for the second 18 months of PaNOSC he would like to increase user involvement, so we can validate that everything PaNOSC is doing is truly useful and helpful to scientists.

Joining the EOSC AISBL was also briefly discussed, in particular whether any membership fees provide value for money.














