PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 08/26/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Ornela(CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Jonathan (ESS), Petra (ESS) and Sophie (ExPaNDS) 


Minutes
-------	


**1. Feedback on the EOSC SRIA**

The document available on https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/open-consultation-eosc-strategic-research-and-innovation-agenda is open for anyone in the world to provide feedback until 31st August. Andy shared a google document and we have collected feedback (in the name of PaNOSC).

Andy requested that everyone submits their feedback individually and that CERIC-ERIC and ILL contribute to the google doc for the common PaNOSC feedback. It was agreed that Jordi will submit the feedback in the name of PaNOSC.

Sophie asked whether PaNOSC still planned to produce a paper as a response to the EOSC SRIA document and Rudolf replied that given the format of the feedback form and the volume of responses that might be received it would be useful for PaNOSC to produce an official statement. 
It was agreed that the statement should be clear and concise (up to one page) and that Rudolf will create a draft. The target date for having the statement ready is 15th September.

**2. ExPaNDS + PaNOSC Annual meeting - latest news**

Sophie reported that after a survey launched during July, which showed limited interest of people in travelling to Prague given the current COVID-19 pandemic, it has been decided that the **PaNOSC-ExPaNDS Annual Meeting will be an online event only**, with no face to face meetings.

This in turn, has some consequences and changes the agenda (instead of face to face workshops we will report on common work done and planned). 

For the event there are two indico draft pages available:
* [European PaN EOSC Symposium](https://indico.eli-beams.eu/event/376/page/0)
* [PaNOSC and ExPaNDS Annual Meeting](https://indico.eli-beams.eu/event/369/page/0)

The Symposium is a one day online event for 9th October open to everyone, with the Annual Event reserved to PaNOSC and ExPaNDS contributors (online as well and taking place 10th and 11th October).

Jordi and Andy commented that in the Indico pages the nature of each event should be made a bit clearer.

Sophie reminded everyone that  there won't be parallel WP sessions, therefore it is very important that **WP leaders meet and synchronise with their PaNOSC/ExPaNDS counterpart ahead of the meeting**, so they can report on this during the Annual Conference.


**3. EOSC-AISBL establishment: latest news and membership perspectives**

Ornela reported that CERIC-ERIC showed interest in becoming a member and that this requires now t to send a formal letter to express interest in joining. Ornela highlighted that the documentation refers to a membership fee, without specifying how much this would be.

Rudolf clarified that the four funding members (CESAER, CSIC, GÉANT and GARR) and all potential future members will meet in December for a constituting General Assembly and at that point the fees for 2021 will be voted. 

It was then speculated that if the budget required for the EOSC Association is around 1.5 to 2M€ annually, then with the 90 organisations that showed interest joining it would be around 20k€/y each, therefore it would be important and good that as many organisations as possible join to lower the fees for everyone. Also, it is possible that the EOSC Secretariat will cover the fees (or most of the fees) for the first year(s).

While at this point it is not clear what the EOSC Association will deliver for the membership fees, it is clear that there will be a good chance to influence the EU Commission in subjects like funding for open science.

Sophie and Rudolf reported that https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/news-opinion/major-milestone-eosc-association-born provides further details about the current status of the EOSC Association.

Jonathan reported that ESS just sent the formal leter to join the EOSC Association.
Ornela confirmed that CERIC-ERIC is looking at the paperwork and possible fees.
Rudolf reported that the ESRF is also looking at joining.
Sophie couldn't say wehther DESY would join at this moment, but she said that NFDI of Germany is interested in joining as the mandated organisation for Germany.
**4. Updates from WP leaders**

* *WP1 - Management* : Jordi reported ongoing work in the 2nd Internal Financial Report. Jordi explained that he plans to share this internal document before the next PMC Meeting (9th September), which will compare spending during the second nine month period with the first nine months. Jordi said that he believes it will be required to make changes to PaNOSC and our plans in order to ensure that we make the most of the allocated grant. Andy said that from now on, PaNOSC should start engaging more with users.

* *WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship* : Andy reported the first WP meeting post-holidays earlier on the day, with ongoing work on DMPs, DP Framework adoption and weekly meetings planned. Andy also explained that ExPaNDS data policy follows a different approach than PaNOSC, which is less ambitious but not incompatible (in principle). Jon suggested that both data policy documents could be maybe merged into a common publication and Rudolf agreed that it would be important to show unity.

* *WP3 - Data Catalog Services* : Tobias was absent. Andy reported that our Reviewer asked PaNOSC representatives to attend an online meeting and we have found the relevant people to do so.

* *WP4 - Data Analysis Services* : Hans was absent. Andy reported a joint meeting with ExPaNDS on portal architecture 8th october.

* *WP5 - ViNYL* : Carsten was absent, no news.

* *WP6 - EOSC Integration* : - Jean-François was absent, no news.

* *WP7 - Sustainability* : Ornela reported the first meeting post-holidays on the day, which included a discussion on internal milestones and ongoing work.

* *WP8 - Training* : Thomas was absent. Petra reported that ELI is working on Jupyter integration for the training platform. Andy asked whether ESS had integrated the Géant AAI solution in the training platform, to which Petra couldn't answer, but after the meeting she provided the following information:

    "This is what’s been done so far:

    - initial meeting setup with Jean-Francois on what os needed for federated AAI, where ESS (DST) is to install a KeyCloak server to be used for testing

    - Jean-Francois was contacted following the setup of the KeyCloak server at ESS, to help with the configuration as agreed

    - an initial one-hour meeting has taken place last month, where Jean-Francois advised on a different setup of the KeyCloak server to allow configuration to go ahead

    - modification recommended by Jean-Francois has been completed, and I’ll be speaking to Jean-Francois at the next WP6 on a future configuration session to finalise KeyCloak setup

    Other AAI tasks that DST is looking into as part of WP6:

    - Investigating requirements for joining/accessing/configuring UmbrellaID at ESS"


* *WP9 - Communication* : Nicoletta reported that the DOI video has been released: https://www.panosc.eu/news/watch-the-newly-released-video-the-doi-for-data/ 
Nicoletta also explained that from 9th to 11th September the [SOLARIS user meeting](https://whova.com/web/solar_202009/) will take place and that an abstract on PaNOSC has been accepted for the poster session. Also, in the Science in the City festival @ ESOF 2020 some PaNOSC videos will be displayed: https://www.esof.eu/en/programmes/science-in-the-city-festival.html


**7. Extension of ExPaNDS**

Due to lack of time, items 5 and 6 of the agenda were not dealt with.
Sophie reported that ExPaNDS is asking for a 6 months unfunded extension to the project (the project is underspending during the COVID-19 pandemic due to difficulties hiring and IT professionals focusing on work related to the extra demands of remote work). This extension will mean reshuffling a fair amount of milestones, deliverables and it is expected to be submitted to the Project Officer in October (document is well advanced, but still needs final review).















