#+TITLE: WP4 Video meeting <2020-01-14 Tue 15:00>

Apologies: Jamie, Stuart

:present: Thomas Vincent, Aiden, Thomas K, Robert, Hans, Lottie, Jakub (ELI), 

* Report from reproducible science data and analysis sets from each site
** Overview Thomas V / Robert
** EuXFEL
 - Two examples [[https://github.com/European-XFEL-examples][shown in this repository]] so far
 - Simex example is WIP
 - Two repositories reproducing results/plots from published papers are being worked on

** CERIC-ERIC
- nobody present
** ELI
- theoretician who uses jupyter notebook will provide dataset and notebook for
  publications, and create binder 
** ESS
- use-case in preparation
** ESRF
- painting 
- tutorials from pyFAI, and other packages
- uses GPU as an interesting corner case
** ILL
- nobody present

* Towards data analysis services (Hans)

Discussion:

ESRF:
- first step of analysis is often the same
  - to reduce the data
- then it diverges

- nice to see more complete examples, even if very specialised

ESS:
- working with data from simulation

ELI:
- working on standardising data from simulation

Hans:
- policy change so we don't need to chase users
Thomas V:
- beamline scientists want to delegate work to users
Franz:
- facilities could require report from users


* Internal Milestone month 12
- IMS 4.1a architecture and design of DAAS - end Nov
- Robert R to draft something based on planning in emails, in cooperation with ILL

* Brief Update from Portal (Stuart)
- when is it ready for deployment?
  - not in March

- What can we do?
  - Thomas V: reduce scope of prototype 
    - uses snapshots 
    - reduce functionality
  - Franz: working with Jamie
  - Jakub: working on front-end of portal
  - ESRF: new person arrives in Feb, won't be able to help immediately
- Common view:
  - better to have very low quality/funcionality now than more complex resul later

* Next Deliverable (April 2020)
  - Request from Management to move this from month 18 to month 16.5
    
    Having started in December 2018, Month 16.5 should be middle of April

  - "Deliverable 4.2. Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service (M18, DEM,
    CO, ILL)"
    
  - Short report describing:
    - Demo remote desktop and Jupyter services at facilities
    - situation at each facility, URLs to entry points/documentation
    - comparison of infrastructure (if appropriate)
    - summary

  - who can lead this?

* Next meeting
** Video meeting
- Tuesday 4th February 15:00 (irregular)
- Tuesday 25th February 15:00 (then again two-weekly)

** In person meeting
- Where and when?
  - bit later would be better
  - Feb/March is very early, May more realistic
  - Hamburg or ESRF
  - not before March
  - April/May better
Option:
  - portal focused meeting at ESRF in March
  - bigger meeting with Expands in May in Hamburg
  
* Any other business
- Suggestions for future topics?

* Future topics
- ELI: show prototype of interface
- ILL: outline prototype status

For even later?
- REANA
- Training material
- LIGO Open Science Centre


* Actions:
- Robert, Jakub and Jamie to work on internal Milestone
- Hans to suggest meeting dates with Anton/Expands
- Hans to talk to Andy regarding plan for M18 deliverable
- Jakub to work with Jamie on Portal towards prototype in March
  - involve other sites where possibel
- All: contribute example data sets and analysis as hard-coded data examples for
  protoype.
- All: Consider volunteering for coordinating the M18 deliverable report
