#+TITLE: WP4 online meeting, 14 May 2019 15:00
#+OPTIONS:   H:2 num:t toc:2

:present: Eric, Stuart, Jamie, Lottie, Robert, Hans, Jakub, Mariana, Carlos, Emiliano,

* Action from previous meetings
** Gallery of visualisation use cases (Robert, Thomas)
- source: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2019-04-30/minutes.org#54-create-gallery-of-visualisation-use-cases-on-github

- ongoing, some input from ESRF provided

** Invite WP3 and WP6 representatives to kickoff meeting (Hans, Robert)
- source: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2019-04-30/minutes.org#551-draft-content-for-meeting
- [X] WP3: Gareth Murphy and/or Tobias Richter
- [ ] WP6? (reply outstanding)
- [ ] EGI? (reply outstanding)

* Report from EGI conference in Amsterdam (Hans)

Report from WP4 meeting during EGI conference

- watch similar projects, for example ESCAPE

   https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2019-05-07-Amsterdam/minutes.org

Discussion:

- one binderhub on the cloud
- kick start during meeting in Hamburg?

* Suggestion to co-operate with DESY IT team (Hans)
- Michael Schuh

* Creation of technical working group for WP4 (Hans)
- One representative from each site
- People on the ground (/technical/ working group)
- First tasks
  - review plan from Amsterda
  - propose milestones

Discussion:

- good idea
- kick off at meeting in June

* Issue tracking for WP4 (Jamie)

https://github.com/panosc-eu/wp4

* WP4 meeting at EuXFEL June 2019 (Robert)

https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2019-06-25-EuXFEL

Suggest to invite
- MinRK (JupyterHub/BinderHub/Binder)
- Michael Crusoe (common Workflow Language)

Could use one day to create binderHub instance in the cloud (if we have enough time)

Action: Robert and Hans to draft and circulate proposed agenda

* Software list  (Hans)

- Must avoid duplication of work in PaNOSC
- At least record software work in WP4 in
  https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/resources/software.rst

- Other (existing / more generic software) can and should go into
  pandata software catalog (https://software.pan-data.eu/software)

* Update from questionnaire task (Jamie)
- Task 4.1: Task 4.1 Survey data analysis requirements and solutions
  at the partner sites, and horizon scan other emerging tools and
  technologies (months 1 - 12)

- Questionnaire will be sent out in 2 to 3 weeks

* Next meetings
- 28 May 2019, 15:00

* Any other business
- CERIC: Welcome to Marco, working on WP4 and WP6
- ESRF: 2 open positions: one for WP4 and one for sysadmin
- Michael Schuh giving online presentation to WP6 in two weeks.
  Carlos (?) to circulate invite to WP4.

* Actions
- All: update software list  https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/resources/software.rst

- All: nominate local lead for technical working group

- All: find at least one scientific notebook use case

- EuXFEL: prepare agenda for meeting in June


------------
