PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 19/12/2018
========================================================

Present
------

Hans (EuXFEL), Jean-Francois (ILL), Petra (ESS), Florian (ELI-DC), Lajos (ELI-ALPS), Tomas (ELI) Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC)

Minutes
------
1. _**Consortium Agreement - feedback from member sites**_

    We received positive feedback from ESRF, ELI, EGI, ESS and CERIC-ERIC
    
    Hans pointed out an issue regarding source code in pages 38 and 39. We are waiting for his proposal for improving it.
    Jean Francois highlighted an issue concerning sharing of background information in page 33, which will be discussed offline between the ESRF and ILL legal officers.
    Nicoletta clarified that CERIC wants to change in page 24 point 11.4 for the WIPO option?
  
2. _**Update from the WP Leaders - update on resources assigned + hiring + work plans**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi reported work on first Deliverable [D1.1 Project Initiation Documentation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NIV2ooImKUw7hwrl3VAog8EUWdyp9Fzs78tcM73GO-A/edit?usp=sharing) (which requires 
around 1/2 to 1 page from each WP leader about their approach for the WP). The document is available online for editing. 
New mailing lists being introduced and work has started (and will be shared) on the [EB Agenda during kick-off](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/24) and 
financial control for the project.
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy reported that he has started doing literature research abobut DOIs for instruments
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent. Petra reported that he is busy hiring someone for WP3.
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported that XFEL is hiring.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Carsten was absent but send an update by email: He created a GitHub
project for the code and doing a task breakdown. Andy added that the ESRF is hiring for simulation work in WP5.
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois reported recruiting ongoing and contact with Geant and EGI about IDP to
manage users. Apparently GEANT doea not provide an IDP and could be an issue. GEANT has still not registered for the Kickoff. 

*Action* - Jean-Francois will contact GEANT and ask them to register.
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - Roby was absent.
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was absent. Petra reported recuritment ad agreement with Copenhangen university
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta reported that the call for tender for the website has been launched.
We expect a supplier to be chosen by the end of January. We also now have a Twitter feed (@PaNOSC_eu) and the press released has come out.

3. _**Start using the assign feature for issues**_

    Broad agreement on the usage of the GitHub assign feature. We will also add a deadline for issues whenever possible.

4. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#4](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/4) PaNOSC EB & PMC
  * Rudolf to own the issue. Some names still missing for EB and attendance is important for kick-off
* [#5](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/5) Complete stakeholders list
  * Closed, but we need to ensure we keep updating the list
* [#6](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/6) Kick-off meeting planning
  * Jordi to own the issue. WP7 session to  not clash with EB meeting. Andy will clarify the meaning
of the break out session to WP leaders
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * Andy to own the issue and invite remaining members proposed by Thomas.
* [#15](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/15) Work Package 5 leader
  * Closed. Manolo (ESRF) to be interim WP5 leader until he goes in a sabatical (June 2019). By that
date XFEL should have someone in place to cover for Carsten
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  * Andy to own the issue. Covered in point 1 of the meeting
* [#17](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/17) Press release about kickoff
  * Closed. Work done. Thanks Nicoletta
* [#19](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/19) Document storing in GitHub
  * Closed. GitHub as main repository. If we need editing by multiple team members at the same time
we will use Google Docs. If at some point this is not convenient we will open a new issue.
* [#20](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/20) Write DMP for PaNOSC (deliverable D1.4)
  * Closed. ESRF started work on this deliverable for end of June. 
* [#21](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/21) Answer EOSC-Hub questions
  * Andy to own the issue. No news
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * Andy to own the issue. Mailing lists created, however we need to populate the WP specific lists
with names. WP leaders to provide the list of names
* [#23](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/23) Financial Control for PaNOSC
  * Jordi to own the issue. Jordi asked to review document. The Partner's grant offices should be 
aware of the reporting required. Jordi also would like this document to be agreed by the EB during kick-off
meeting
    
5. _**Next PMC meeting format**_

 *   It was approved that in order to get these meetings closer to what we are agreeing in the Consortium Agreement, 
PMC meetings will be notified only to the appropriate mailing list. PMC members and WP leaders will be invited. 
Other stakeholders could be invited if required.

6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

*    Jean-Francois reported that he has registered for a meeting organised by ESFRI for the INFRAEOSC-04 which will 
take place in London on the 30/1. More info at this url: https://www.esfri.eu/esfri-events/esfri-ris-eosc-liaison-workshop
Andy has received an invitation too but he could not attend. Either Rudolf or Jordi will cover for him in the event.

7. _**AOB**_
    
 *   Just a reminder to add the job adverts in the site. Nicoletta pointed out that these could be tweeted to @PaNOSC_eu to get more exposure.
 *   Andy reminded everyone to use the url https://panosc.eu for PanOSC as this is the official one and will be maintained in the future. The panosc-eu.github.io was a temporary solution.

    
