PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 09/09/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Ornela(CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Jonathan (ESS), Petra (ESS), Philippe le Brouster (ILL), Florian (ELI), Teodor (ELI), Hans (XFEL), Tobias (ESS), Giuseppe (EGI) and Sophie (ExPaNDS) 


Minutes
-------	

The meeting started with the introductions of Philippe (ILL) and Teodor (ELI).
Philippe joins as a WP6 team member and will be representing ILL at the PMC meetings, while Teodor will take over Florian's duties in PaNOSC over time and represent ELI at the PMC meetings. Teodor has a more technical background and will also have more time to dedicate to PaNOSC than Florian and will be more involved in WPs.

Everybody welcomed Philippe and Teodor to PaNOSC and wished for a very fruitful collaboration. 

**1. 2nd Internal Financial Report - conclusions and actions**

Jordi reminded everyone of the 2nd Internal Financial Report that was shared with the PMC and also the Executive Board over a week ago. The report shows how compared with the initial planned expenditure at the time of writing the proposal PaNOSC is underspending significantly. In particular, spending over the last nine months (Months 10 to 18) has improved compared with the first nine months (M1 to M9), however we are still underspending as a whole. Other topics covered by the report are how some partners seem more geared-up for certain WPs, while contributing very few to others.

The conclusions of the document and Jordi's prefered way of proceeding would be then to talk with each WP leader and also each partner representative in order to find out what is feasible in order of spending and change our plans accordingly (PO would be then informed of any firm decision we made to change plans).

Florian asked for the timing of this excercise and Jordi replied that he would like to have this excercise done in around 3 weeks, so there is time to write a report and shared it ahead of our Annual Meeting (9th-11th November), so in case we need to formally approve a change of plans our Executive Board can do so.

Hans then asked about the possibility of asking for a non-funded extension to PaNOSC. Jordi replied that while this is an option and it would help us ensure we have the time to spend the money allocated in the grant and deliver more it would be preferable to change plans without this (a 6-month COVID-19 related extension would involve a bit more of bureocracy). Andy noted that ExPaNDS are requesting an extension and Sophie added that six months is the maximum for the COVID-19 accelerated approval. Dario added that for a different project a COVID-19 6-months extension has been requested and the process is not long (this request has not yet been approved).

Tobias then enquired about what questions would be made to WP leaders and Jordi explained that while he did not stop to think and plan this carefully yet, the questions would turn around:

* Can the WP be delivered with the remaining PMs? Are too many? Too few?
* Is the contribution from partners in accordance with the PMs spent?
* What is missing in order to have a successful WP?

Tobias then asked whether it is possible to have information about how many PMs are left to each WP and the planned timing for spending them to which Jordi replied that the report includes how many PMs are left to each partner for each WP (and if further info is require he can be contacted).

Andy then added that the pressure on clusters from the EOSC is going to increase.

**2. ExPaNDS + PaNOSC Annual meeting**

Sophie said that the Indico page is now pretty much finished and that the event will open for registration soon. She reminded everyone that it will be an **online only event**, Florian, Rudolf. Jordi and Sophie then added the following information:

* Fully online event
* Schedule has changed, now we have 3 half days
* Monday afternoon for the Symposium (open to external people)
* Tuesday and Wednesday mornings for the Annual Meeting (only for ExPaNDS and PaNOSC people)
* Chair of the Executive Board of PaNOSC is scheduled to go from Thomas Tschentscher to Mark Johnson

Florian then added what would the most suitable time for the Executive Board meetings, to which Jordi added that Sophie and him think that it would be a good think to have on top of the EB meetings (PaNOSC and ExPaNDS separately) also a common session for both Executive Boards, as in a face-to-face event exchanges would have taken place, but with an online event everything needs to be planned in order to happen. Rudolf stated that for these sessions to be successful it is required that they have a chair person and a defined agenda.

At the end, it was decided that the EB events could take place at the end of the meeting, on Wednesday afternoon.

**3. Extension of ExPaNDS & comparing new timescales with PaNOSC**

Sophie shared the [link to the new target high-level planning for ExPaNDS](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SHsImuQ59sd7O7BPSo91pmSJyP-7ncADrfRSCaNIUgo/edit#gid=287909816) and explained what milestones/deliverables have been delayed for up to six months. Jordi said that it is possible now that some items fall for both projects in very close dates, therefore there is now a very good opportunity to work together. Andy added that WP leaders need to talk more to their ExPaNDS equivalent.

**4. Updates from WP leaders**

* WP1 - Management: Jordi explained that he is going to be busy with the exchanges with WP leaders and partners representatives that will come now after the financial report.

* WP2 - WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported work on DMPs, meeting regularly, Dario presenting how to adopt PaNOSC's DP Frameowrk in the Solaris User Meeting and also the need to synchronise with Brian (ExPaNDS)

* WP3 - Data Catalog Services: Tobias reported meeting with ExPaNDS on onthologies and dictionaries and an upcoming meeting on FAIR. Also, he will be working with Teodor.

* WP4 - Data Analysis Services: Hans reported regular meetings taking plance and work to synchronise efforts between the different facilities and ExPaNDS on the Portal. A joint workshop is scheduled for 8th October.

* WP5 - ViNYL: Carsten was absent. No news. Jordi asked whether anyone has news about WP5 and its leadership. It was agreed that Jordi will send a reminder to ensure that WP5 is represented in these meetings and to ensure that work is continuing in this WP in an orderly fashion.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François was absent. Giuseppe reported installing One Provider at the ILL to be back to moving data to CESNET. Rudolf added that conversations with Globus Connect are ongoing. Giuseppe added that there is an EGI conference and are abstracts to be submitted.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Dario explained that a WP7 meeting took place in the moring and that a discussion regarding the resources required for the WP took place. The ongoing activity to capture the costs is continuing and that CERIC has engaged a person representing CERIC ILO in order to support the work on the business plan part of WP7.

* WP8 - Training: Thomas was absent. Petra reported work on Jupyter integration adn a job ad out for a post-doc to replace Lynda. Florian added that he is finalising a message to WPs to ask for help defining the training content.

* WP9 - Communication: Nicoletta reported precense in the ESOF2020, a PaNOSC presentation at SOLARIS user meeting, the DOI letter is finished and to be distributed to journals and that the next stream of work would be getting ready for the Annual Meeting promotion.


**AOB**

Andy explained that there is an EOSC meeting with other clusters (the "Gaining Momentum") and that if anyone is interested in joining to let him know. Rudolf added that he is interested.
















