PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 23/09/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Jonathan (ESS), Petra (ESS), Philippe (ILL), Florian (ELI), Teodor (ELI), Hans (XFEL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas(ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS) and Patrick (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting it was requested by Andy to talk about the feedback received on our Periodic Report.

**0. Rejection of Periodic Report**

Jordi explained that our Project Officer (PO) has notified us that the Periodic Report has been rejected. There are two main reasons why this has been rejected:
    1. A publication listed as open access is not open access: Rudolf is contacting the journal in order to make it open access. This will have a cost, however it seems that H2020 rules mandate that published papers should be open.
Rudolf will continue working in this topic to sort this as soon as possible.
    2. ELI Fianances in the report are not correctly described: there is a significant difference in the number of Person/Months (PMs) allocated to ELI during the reporting period and what has been reported as spent. In the same way, there is also a significant difference in the average cost of each PM for ELI. This should have been clearly explained in the Technical report - Part B (section 5.2), however it is not in there. It seems one part of the explanation was redacted but didn't make it to the report that was uploaded due to human error, however the other part was never redacted. Florian will provide the text to be added to the document, which then will be reuploaded and resubmitted by Andy or Jordi.
    3. Not related to the Periodic Report but still a rejection. The deliverable of the Data Management Plan D1.2 was incorrectly labelled with other number. In order to correct it our PO rejected the deliverable. Jordi fixed the issue and resubmitted it.

Andy added to this that we have 14 days to fix this issue. We were informed a week ago of this (16/09), therefore the deadline to resubmit everything is 30th September.

Hans asked whether it is acceptable if a paper is closed in a journal but we offer it open access as a pre-release. No one seemed to know the answer for sure. Jordi will try to find out.

Andy also pointed out that a new paper is going to be going out from WP5 and that he asked Juncheng to ensure it is open access. This will have a cost of 500€ and Andy asked Juncheng to talk with Hans as PaNOSC should pay for this.

**1. ExPaNDS + PaNOSC Annual meeting**

Sophie reported that Nicoletta sent today some announcement/communications out and that now the team organising the event will focus on planning and making clear to Work Package leaders what is expected during the 2nd and 3rd days of the event.

Jordi added that the event will be streamed in Youtube and Sophie said that we can now register for the event.

Patrick added that he would like if WP leaders would create new internal milestones that would signal concrete actions for working togehter.

Andy said that all expectations from these days once planned and decided should be communicated very clearly to WP leaders of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC, so they have the time to prepare.

**2. Updates from WP leaders**

* WP1 - Management: Jordi explained that he has been busy working organising the WP reviews (as per 2nd Internal Financial Report) and the information that he shared with them in order to prepare these reviews. He is also working on the rejection of the Periodic Report and will need to organise a session for Partner Representatives to discuss the findings from the reviews with WP leaders.


* WP9 - Communication: Nicoletta reported work on promoting the annual meeting, preparing the review of WP9 and planning activites for next year, which will be a good opportunity to talk with ExPaNDS. Also, there is an interview lined-up with a scientist at ILL.
Jon added that it is important to engage with bigger number of users in order to obtain feedback and wondered wether workshops would be a good way (and whether we have funding for this), to which Nicoletta replied that she would like that more communication and dissemination is done during User Meetings and Training Sessions (WP8). Also, online workshops can be organised. Sophie added that ExPaNDS is planning two user meetings and that PaNOSC could collaborate and make them a joint event. Jon also said that if Heads of Facilities talk about PaNOSC in plenary presentations is a very good way to reach pelenty of users (there was a 20-minutes presentation of ExPaNDS during the ESS user meeting).
Jordi explained that while there is no budget associated to organise workshops, PaNOSC is underspending in travel (thanks to COVID-19) and also is underspending in most other categories, therefore it shouldn't be a problem to finance (reasonably priced) workshops.

* WP2 - WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported work on DMPs and meeting with Brian (ExPaNDS). A document drafed by Jon is now open for comments (**link?**) and it would be very good if every partner would contribute (Hans will find someonew to collaborate in the name of XFEL) and Heike will do a presentation next tweek in a FAIR workshop organised by ExPaNDS (**link to event?**)

* WP8 - Training: Thomas reported work on integrating UmbrellaId for the e-learning platform. There is a joint meeting with ExPaNDS on a training platform called ALEXIA. Florian added that the talk was not on technical aspects but rather on sustainability and that WP8 should be reasonable about what expects to achieve (objectives of WP to be achieved, but number of training offered should be reasonable). Nicoletta asked about training on EOSC services done by PaNOSC and Thomas explained that there is a specific task for that in the WP.

* WP3 - Data Catalog Services: Tobias reported progress on implementing the search API at each facility and defining ontologies. There is also an ongoing effort to align with ExPaNDS on this topic and discussion on how best work together in something that fills the needs of both projects.

* WP7 - Sustainability: Ornela was absent. Dario explained that WP7 meeting planned for today is rescheduled to next week. A discussion on the execution of task T7.3 Business Modle has started, in particular looking at the EOSC Hub business model methodology that has been published (**link?**) and what content/ideas can be reused. Also, effort is ongoing to include EGI in WP7.

* WP4 - Data Analysis Services: Hans reported ongoing effort to connect the Front and Back ends of the portal, with all sites working on it (whether is in a local install or a facility-level). There is a tech workshop joingwith ExPaNDS (**link?**) in October. Also, T. Kluver is working with WP8 on training.

* WP6 - EOSC Integration: Jean-François was absent. Jordi reported that a milestone from end of May is still pending. This milestone is about having PaNOSC services in the EOSC and it was agreed that it was acceptable to just register existing services (PaNdata catalogue, e-learning platform) in the EOSC, however Jean-François has been very busy and this has not yet been done.
Andy also noted that there is a deliverable due M24 for WP6, which is assigned to ILL, to which Philippe replied that he will contact Jamie to ensure the work is planned.

* WP5 - ViNYL: Carsten was absent. Jordi will contact Carsten about attending PMCs. Thomas reported that he knows that there is activity in WP5 and ongoing sprints, with messaging and other activity in Slack as well. Andy pointed out that a new publication is ready, which will need to be open.


**3. Pending Issues**


* [#60 Common SRIA statement](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/60) - Rudolf confirm that this has been done (and a second statement with the clusters done as well). Issue closed
* [#59 PaNOSC & ExPaNDS Data Policies](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/59) - Andy is starting work with Brian, but he doesn't expect this to advance much until the end of the year due to other priorities.
* Issues [#53](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/53), [#46](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46) and [#43](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43) can be addressed with the annual meeting getting WP leaders to work together and creating new internal milestones
* Other issues for KPIs, Risks and Observers remain open without progress.

**4. Upcoming events**

Some relevant events coming up are:
* SFRI meeting (**link?**) early October
* EGI meeting (**link?**)
* Tech Workshop on the portal (**link?**)

**AOB**

Andy requested that Use Cases are an item in the agenda for the next PMC meeting.
















