#+TITLE: WP4 Video meeting <2020-09-08 Tue 15:00>

:present: Andy, Daniel, Jakub, Sandor, Andrea, Teodor, Thomas V, Thomas, K, Robert, Majid, Aidan, Chris, Loic, Hans  

:apologies: 

* Minutes from last meeting
Are available at https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-08-18/notes.org

* Technical coordination workshop announcement (Jamie/Daniel)
- date for the workshop is October 8th 2020, from 13:00 to 17:00. 
- More details on the event is available here:
  https://indico.cells.es/event/249/
- all PaNOSC partners should present and participate

** Daniel (technical coordinator ExPaNDS) on purpose of meeting:
- ambition: share technical knowledge between projects
- COVID made exchange more difficult
- workshop to meet each other
  - who is who, and 
  - working on what (scientific software people, IT admin, software developers,
    ...)
- most facilities have deployed portal prototype
  - share how the portal fits (or doesn't) at each facility: 
  - what went well, what could go better, what is the technical gap between the
    portal and your facility, or between the portal and what it aims to do
  - to get idea of what needs to be done
- also interesting to share what has happened to teams at all facilities, and
  how roadmaps and plans may have changed (due to COVID19)
- How are you anticipating to use the portal? How does it fit with other
  services you may have already?
- 53 people registered already
- ExPaNDS and PaNOSC partners invited
- ask each facility to share information on the above
- create network based on that information

** Discussion
- should the architecture be presented? Yes (before contributions).
- can/should the front-end be tested as well? (ideally)
- have report on experience of Calipso+ as a kick off? (yes)

** Actions for all partners (PaNosc and ExPaNDS)
- register for meeting https://indico.cells.es/event/249/
- prepare 5-min presentation addressing issue above


* ExPaNDS - PaNOSC joint meeting 9-11 November
Update from Andy:
- meeting is now virtual
- 3-half day meeting
- 09 November: people with EOSC insight present things and are ready for questions
- meeting between expands and panosc should happen virtually before the joint
  meeting. Also vision from Patrick and Andy. 
- use half-day on 10th and 11th for WP leader and key players to present the
  outcomes of the meetings before hand: joint work, what are the next steps

* Portal forum
- In PaNOSC: get together in separate meeting (Andy to organise)

* User engagement
Discussion
- go out and identify use cases
- share use cases between partners
- example: 
  - users using notebooks for standard analysis as a typical use case
- 'build it and they will come' may not work
- create list of use cases as a skeleton: to be raised at PMC meeting tomorrow
  (Hans/Andy); good activity for PaNOSC overall
- use cases includes
  - exporting data, remote analysis, user authentication, scientific data models

* Portal update 
- ILL recruiting
- ELI: installing back end in effort to connect front-end and back-end

* AoB
- Could COVID images be used as show case for front-end of portal?
- Next WP4 deliverable is D4.3 in month 42 


* Next meeting
Tuesday 22 September 15:00
- report back from portal forum meeting
- what do people do with Jupyter work? What support do you provide?
  - Andrea: jupyter notebooks in singularity, viewers
  
  
* Actions
- All: register for https://indico.cells.es/event/249/
- Andy: set up meeting (portal forum / PaNOSC)
- Hans+Andy: raise gathering of use cases at PMC

