PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 13/08/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
*Not recorded*


Minutes
-------	


**1. Feedback on the EOSC SRIA** (see: https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/open-consultation-eosc-strategic-research-and-innovation-agenda)

Rudolf asks whether we should respond as PaNOSC, as organisations and / or individuals.  He is of the opinion that it would be difficult for the EOSC Executive Board to change the three high-level objectives. There is probably limited room for significant change to the strategy and it may be wise to provide feedback as PaNOSC and organisations to maximise influence. In response to this, 

 How we want to respond and how to compile our individual 

Consider also making criticial points very clear.

What is the role of the document asks Florian. What is the partnership? Is it being negotiated with the EC?

Rudolf indicates that the situation is very fluid from an economic point of view, in particular. The Partnership, as far as Rudolf knows, is at a proposal level. The EOSC-AISBL is in the process of being created. The SRIA is the guiding document for future financing within the future Framework Programme. The prioritisation of the various action areas in terms of funding and timing should also be considered within that context. It is nevertheless important that our voice be heard, in order to make sure that EOSC has a meaningful impact for research, industry and the society.

Many elements still there that should have been done.

JF: what could be interesting for our organisations is not there (for instance, sorting).

Single European Data Space, where there is very little for us. Organised around 9 European Data Spaces. In the explanatory document, the physical aspects of managing, storing and organising aspects.

Florian: Lack of sharpness. Still very comprehensive.

Rudolf: who makes the resources available for storage and re-use. Question left aside.

Rudolf suggests dedicated meeting and then submission by coordinator. Then possibility for individuals to respond. Florian mentions the possibility for position paper with other clusters to be re-used.

Sophie: decision to respond as ExPaNDS and individual partner organisations. One response per person (logged in is necessary). 

Patrick and Sophie came up within initial points submitted to EB. Answers waiting, agenda for next week. Discussed also with the Helmoltz Association. Said exactly the same thing: should focus on 2-3 points that are most important. 

Doodle to be sent for dedicated. 2hr meeting on Wed or Thursday.

Jon: coordinate with ExPaNDS ahead.

**2. Updates from WP leaders**

WP1: Jordi not attending.

WP2: Florian mentions the forthcoming tasks. Works within ELI on implementation of data policy framework. Rudolf mentions interest in the DMP at ESRF.

WP3: Tobias reports on good progress with the search API for ICAT at ESS. Work with WP3 in ExPaNDS on ontologiues. Two meetings planned in September. Some misalignment to be resolved.

WP4: Jamie and Daniel organising the workshop on portal deployment. COVID-19 is also as an item.

WP5: Thomas reports on the process of organising a code-camp in September.

WP6: JF reports very few things. Meetings maintained but EGI and GEANT on a holiday. Definition of PaNOSC services being drafted and could be proposed to PMC. Depends on workload. Would be useful for the registration in the portal. What to provide in terms of helpdesk. Contacted Globus Connect with EGI. Started something with Globus early in the year, but uncertainty given the fee. Idea from EGI to become a European node for Globus connect. Started to discuss and Jean-Francois involved as use case for ESRF. They are doing technical tests because the solution is not fully ready. Results expected at the end of the year. INFRA-EOSC-7 would finance. Working on an agreement between EGI and Globus Connect. The latter would like to make a presentation of the subscription to our partners. Conference call being prepared for audience for PaNOSC and ExPaNDS.
Rudolf surprised by information on INFRA-EOSC-7 as this has not been decided yet and there’s competition. Reduce the cost of subscription via INFRA-EOSC-7. For JF, what is important to get the support to users via Globus Connect. Small survey is likely to be sent by EGI to survey interest in Globus Connect.

Rudolf also considers using PaNOSC money available. To be decided collectively among partners.

JF: real issue is the business model. Price-list for different facilities. For ESRF it was acceptable. For others, it was unacceptable. Seems that they apply what they apply in the US to each scientific field. More transparency would be needed.

Rudolf: could contact Argone and see how they manage.

WP7:

WP8:
-	F2F meeting in September
-	ELIXIR platform: Rudolf interested in joining in the context of EOSC-3. Didn’t get feedback from them
-	Synergies with iNFRA-EOSC

WP9


**4. Upcoming events:**

* *PaNOSC - ExPaNDS annual meeting: status update*:
- Benchmark of tools by Nicoletta. Zoom and Hoova have been identified. Will be discussed at the next prep meeting.
- 

* *Joint workshop on portal organised by ALBA*
* *EOSC - ESFRI workshop in Greece*



**5. Post-summer perspectives (see latest email by Andy)**

Extension of ExPaNDS: looking at possible impact on collaboration with PaNOSC.
ExPaNDS finishes in February 2023.
Amendment is being prepared. Discussed with PO and document to be sent in September.
Interim report for the first 9 months showing underspending. In fact, the COVID has delayed recruitment and staff involved had to focus on development of remote access.


**6. AOB**
















