PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 04/03/2020 
========================================================

Agenda
------	

1. Dates + Draft agenda for the Review meeting in Brussels 

2. Update on the next Annual Meeting with ExPaNDS

3. Update on PaNOSC space on Zenodo and upload deliverables to generate a DOI

4. ExPaNDS Technical Coordination Board

5. Update on Milestone 8.3 pan-learning.org up and running

6. News from other proposals and events
    * INFRAEOSC-07 A1 project proposal by EGI
    * INFRAEOSC-03
    * EOSC and CNRS (22/1/2020)
    * FAIRsFAIR data repository certification (6/2/2020)
    * FAIRsFAIR [open call for FAIR champions](https://www.fairsfair.eu/form/open-call-european-fair-champions)
    * EOSC training workshop (28/2/2020)
    * EOSC-Life Annual Meeting (Florence 03/03/2020)

7. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems

| WP | Notes |
| -- | ----- |
| WP1 Management |  |
| WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship |  | 
| WP3 Data Catalog Services |  | 
| WP4 Data Analysis Services |  | 
| WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory |  | 
| WP6 EOSC Integration |  | 
| WP7 Sustainibility | Tinman report update | 
| WP8 Staff training in data stewardship | MS8.3 due February | 
| WP9 Outreach & Communication | DOI video| 

*WP6 - ILL News* :
- *AAI: the integration of UmbrellaID/Eduteam with keycloak has been achieved, we now just need to integrate with a shibboleth instance, before engaging in step 2 (Edugain, Orcid, ...)*
- *AAI: We are preparing a hands-on training session (focusing on keycloak for the integration into the RIs) for PaNOSC and ExPANDS partners for May at Amsterdam.  The 2-half days (lunch time to lunch time) session will be limited to 15 people, an indico site will be set up.*
- *Globus Connect: We (EGI and me) had a meeting with Globus Connect, we should receive soon the first commercial proposal.*
- *Archving pilot, the server has been reinstalled using Centos 7, we will start real test transfer using FTS next week.*

On the ILL side: we have eventually recruited a sysadmin for PaNOSC, he should start in June.

8. REMINDER OF Next Deliverables & Milestones 

| Deliverable | New date | Original Date | 
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | 
| D1.2b Mid-year Summary | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated | **end April** | *May 2020* | 
| D3.1 API definition | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service | **mid-April** | *May 2020* |  
| D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks | **April?** | *May 2020* | 

| Milestone | Due date |
| --------- | -------- |
| MS8.3 pan-learning.org up and running | **February 2020** |

| Internal Milestone | Due date |
| ------------------ | -------- |
| IMS3.2 API Feedback from ExPaNDS | March 2020 |
| IMS3.3 Community Meeting on NeXus Ontologies | March 2020 |
| IMS8.2 Solution for Jupyter integration found [T8.2] | December 2019 |
| UMS8.3 Budget clarification for hardware [T8.1] | **January 2020** |
| IMS8.6 Wish-list from partners defined [T8.3] | **December 2019** |
| IMS8.7 Worksop scheduled [T8.3] | **February 2020** |
| IMS8.8 First facility specific course integrated [T8.3] | May 2020 |
| IMS9.1 Report on Y1 outreach activities published | **December 2019** |

*Please do add Milestones and Internal Milestones supporting documents in GitHub*

9. Issues https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
 * [Cooperation with ExPaNDS](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46) - update
 * [Internal Milestones](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43) - do we need extra internal milestones for 2020?
 * [KPIs](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) - update
 * [Risk Management](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) - update
 * [Observer status](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) - update

10. Job openings and hirings

11. AOB
