PaNOSC Project Management Committee Meeting - 08/10/2020 
=========================================================

Agenda
------	

1. TBC

6. Pending Issues *(max 10 min)*

* [#60 Common SRIA statement](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/60) - **new**
* [#59 PaNOSC & ExPaNDS Data Policies](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/59) - **new**
* [#53 Joint Annual meeting](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/53) - *see item 2*
* [#46 Cooperation with ExPaNDS](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46) - *ongoing*
* [#43 Internal Milestones / deliverables](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43) - *this needs reviewing*
* [#41 Update KPIs](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) - *still some missing from ~M18*
* [#25 Risk Management](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) - *this needs reviewing*
* [#9 Observer status](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) - *role of observers needs to be reviewed*


7. AOB




