PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 08/10/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Jonathan (ESS), Petra (ESS), Florian (ELI), Teodor (ELI), Tobias (ESS), Thomas(ESS) and Giuseppe (EGI)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting it was requested by Jordi to talk about a notification received in the EU Portal regarding the interim payment of the grant. Most/all partners are aware of this notification and have access to it. If a partner doesn't have this information please contact Jordi.

**1. Feedback on review meeting & resubmition of periodic report**

Jordi had shared the feedback received which is rather positive. Jordi and Andy explained that there are however some actions and feedback to process.

It was agreed that Jordi will create an issue in GitHub for each action.
Andy requested that PaNOSC's achievements should be listed (like ENVRI-FAIR: https://envri.eu/18-months-of-accomplishments/ has done) in the website and Jordi requested to add the KPIs as well. Both requests were approved and Nicoletta will work on updating the PaNOSC website accordingly.

**2. ExPaNDS + PaNOSC Annual meeting**

Unfortunately no one from PaNOSC could attend the weekly meeting to prepare the annual meeting and no one from ExPaNDS was present in the PMC meeting to report back. 

Jordi reminded all WP leaders to work with their ExPaNDS counterparts to prepare the presentations and common actions/milestones for the Annual Meeting. 

Florian added that the registrations are open and reminded everyone to register (we have 77 registrations so far). Florian explained that he is plannning to send a reminder for the registration two weeks before the event.

Andy added that we should target the other cluster projects with the objective of having at least one representative from each cluster project attending.

A brief discussion between Florian, Rudolf and Jon followed on the advantages and disadvantages of inviting users and it was decided that while some emails have gone out to user offices and users it would be better to deal with users via a specific workshop event that would be better tailored for them (by including examples of use cases and current usage of PaNOSC services). It was agreed to discuss during the annual meeting how best to organise this kind of event for users.

**3. Use cases**

Andy explained that it is very important to identify use cases (what, how, actors involved, etc.) and obtain this information from users. A [template](https://drive.ceric-eric.eu/f/4bdd63655f0145e7a6d5/) for this exists from FAIRisFAIR (**LINK REQUIRED**) and Andy suggest to use the same/similar format to gather information.

It was approved that each partner site should collect a few use cases. An update on progress on this topic is expected for the Annual Meeting, with many use cases collected by the end of the year. Jordi will create an issue for this.


**4. Pending Issues**


* [#59 PaNOSC & ExPaNDS Data Policies](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/59) - Andy is reporting very slow progress
* Issues [#53](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/53), [#46](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46) and [#43](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43) and [#41](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) can be addressed with the annual meeting getting WP leaders to work together and creating new internal milestones
* [#25 Risk Management](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) - This matches the feedback from the review meeting on point 1 of the agenda
* [#9 Observer status](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) - Andy explained that part of this has been solved with ExPaNDS and Thomas explaiend that everyone that wrote letters of supports should be invited to our Annual Meeting (Nicoletta to follow-up on that)

**5. WP leaders updates**

Jordi requested a status update for the upcoming milestones and deliverables:

* WP1 - D1.6 and MS1.3 are related and will be mostly done after the Annual Meeting. Jordi will request support from the people that have been working on the meeting organisation.
* WP2 - D2.3 : Andy reported that it is doable as a great deal can be reused based on the lessons learned document. Jordi added that if a partner is implementing the DP framework, all the process that they follow would be a great addition to this.

    MS2.2 : Dario started the work to formally adopt the DP framework at CERIC-ERIC, however formal approval may take a long time. Jordi explained that the mileston can be late if needed, the important thing is to explain why is late and getting the DP framework implemented.
* WP3 - D3.2 : Tobias is not worried for this deliverable due at the end of March 2021
* WP4 : Hans was absent
* WP5 - D5.2 and MS5.2 : Teodor WP5 is progressing well and will be done.
* WP6 - D6.4 : It was reoprted that the software catalogue will be late because as of today there is not plan to deliver this. 

    MS5.2 : Thomas said that from EGI a form was received to register the e-learning platform, so this is advancing.
* WP7, WP8 and WP9 have no upcoming deliverables or milestones. Dario reported that he will share this information with Jordi ASAP as it is already available at WP7 level about internal milestones.















