PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 19/02/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Juncheng (XFEL), Thomas (ESS), Hans (XFEL), Jamie (ILL), Ornella (CERIC), Sophie (DESY/ExPaNDS), Nicoletta (CERIC) and Roberto (CERIC)

Meeting originally planned for 12/02/2020

Minutes
-------	

**1. Change of time for PMC meetings (13:30 instead of 14:00)** 

Hans has requested the PMC meetings to start half an hour earlier as he is no longer available on Wednesdays after 14:30h. None of the attendees raised any concerns regarding this minor scheduling change and this change was therefore approved. Jordi will share the news with the management mailing list to ensure everyone is aware and that those who couldn't attend today’s meeting can raise concerns.


**2. Dates + Draft agenda for the Review meeting in Brussels** 

Andy read information obtained from our Project Officer (Rene) about the Review meeting. Andy explained that Rene is starting to look for a reviewer and final dates would depend on the availability of the review as well. If PaNOSC could have a draft ready for early June then the review could take place in the 2nd half of June. Jordi to share the template to fill in by WP leaders.

Ornela said that it could be difficult for CERIC-ERIC to have the financial part available to which Andy replied that he believes the most important is the technical part.

A brief discussion about the length of the document ensued and Hans said that less than 5 pages for WP won't be enough, however being brief is positive.

**3. Update on the next Annual Meeting with ExPaNDS**

Florian explained that the plan is to have a 1/2 day for joint open meeting, followed by a full day of face to face meetings for each WP and to finish with a 1/2 day summary session. The plan is for the meeting to take place at ELI Beamlines, just south of Prague 9th, 10th and 11th November, the estimates are for around 100 attendees or even a bit more than 100.

Sophie explained that she checked with SOLEIL (a French partner) and that the fact that 11th November is a bank holiday in France does not seem to create any issues for them.

It was agreed that Florian will try to share a draft schedule next week.

Jordi asked whether the Executive Board was aware of all the preliminary plans and Rudolf asked when exactly the EB meeting would take place, to which Florian replied that the proposal is for the EB to meet on the 1st day. Sophie then said that she is not sure ExPaNDS' EB would meet, as they are planning to meet end of November, to which Rudolf replied that it would be very positive if both EBs could get together during the annual meeting.

Action: Sophie and Andy to check whether the respective EBs can make it to Prague on the 9th of November. 

**4. Create a PaNOSC space on Zenodo and upload deliverables to generate a DOI**

Andy explained that in order to reference in the future deliverables having DOIs would be very useful. Juncheng said WP5 participants already upload content to Zenodo. Hans wondered whether having the deliverables in GitLab is not enough, however he agreed that in the case of the data policy deliverable a DOI would be very useful indeed.

It was agreed that Nicoletta will create a space in Zenodo for PaNOSC and then WP leaders would get permissions to upload content. WP1 would be in charge of uploading deliverables.

**6. News from other proposals and events**

Before moving to the update from WP leaders, it was decided to briefly talk about two project proposals:

**INFRAEOSC-03**: Rudolf explained that he attended a meeting in Brussels the day before and that the proposal would be for 41M€ and a duration of 2.5 years (starting end 2020 or beginning 2021). The proposal should be submitted by 22 April. The meeting very much focused on discussing a competing proposal from the social sciences focussing on FDO and “Social Machines”.  A proposal was made to integrate the competing proposal, however, the outcome is not yet clear. 

The idea of the proposal is to have one partner per Science Cluster, i.e. the coordinating entity, representing their respective community.  Other legal entities may join, but the mechanism how this can be done still needs clarification.
Andy said that we could try to use this call to onboard user communities. Rudolf stated that some ExPaNDS partners signaled interest, but nothing concrete yet. The the proposal writing is behind schedule and it will soon be necessary to define the participating legal entities in PaNOSC and ExPaNDS. 

**INFRAEOSC-07**: Andy explained that Tiziana would like to know if PaNOSC members are interested as “Consumers” or “Providers” for this proposal. Rudolf proposed to use the PaNOSC WP6 activity to explore using the available compute resources in EGI as preparatory work for INFRAEOSC-07. 


**5. News from WP leaders**

By this time the meeting was running a bit behind schedule.
**WP4** : Hans reported from a meeting with ExPaNDS in Hamburg that was useful and that conversations about architecture and portal took place. A four-day long code camp to deploy the portal is planned at the end of March at the ESRF and ILL campus.

**WP9** : Nicoletta reported the E-SOFT? event and asked whether we want to attend.
Nicoletta also talked about some other things I couldn't hear.
Andy said that he will get in touch the ESRF's User Office and Nicoletta as they are interested in participating in the DOI video.

**WP8** : Thomas reported two meetings this week and a planned joint face-to-face workshop with ExPaNDS, however due a sick-leave a plan B must be found. 
Thomas will also share a poll to ask everyone about the new domain for e-neutrons.org

**WP7** : Ornela reported that we shared feedback on the Tinman report and a meeting next Wednesday to discuss progress on deliverables.

There was no time for anything else, however, WP leaders are encouraged to add a few lines about progress in their WP.








