PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 19/12/2018
========================================================

Present
------

Jean-Francois (ILL), Petra (ESS), John (ESS), Florian (ELI-DC), Jan (ELI-DC), Tomas (ELI) Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), 
Andy (ESRF), Carsten (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC)

Minutes
------
1. _**Kick-off meeting [Issue #6](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/6)**_

    We reviewed the number of attendees, different events and slots for the kick-off meeting. It was agreed that a 
    light dinner will be offered the night before for the attendees already in place.

    We reviewed the Executive Board meeting agenda (which will be circulated as soon as possible).
    It was agreed that reporting for the Executive Board needs to be aligned as much as possible with the required
    reporting for the EC. 
    It was also noted that it would be good if the Executive Board can act as interface with the European Union to ensure
    that we are well aligned.
  
2. _**EOSC-Hub questions + answers [Issue #21](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/21)**_

    Andy explained what he already wrote in the issue 21 and there was broad agreement that at this stage further work
    is required in the EOSC-Hub to make it more user friendly.

3. _**Questions to EC**_

    Geert asked Andy and Jordi if there was any specific question that we wanted to make him. During this meeting Jordi
    presented a proposed list of questions that was accepted. 
    A new question regarding links between national RIs and PaNOSC added.

4. _**Job openings**_

    Now new job openings, however we reminded all partners to update the job opennings section of the PaNOSC website 
    as new positions are open or closed.

5. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi explained that he has been busy with the kick-off preparation and that for him the most 
important outcome from the kick-off meeting would be to have a detailed plan for PaNOSC with extra internal deliverables
or products, so we can focus on monitoring what we achive rather than what we are working on (avoiding the possibility of
working on something for long time and not achieving much).
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy explained that he is busy getting to know where everyone is with Data 
Policies and what are the next steps. He also obtained a list of people involved for his parallel session.
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** -  Tobias was absent. Petra reported planning of the parallel session and that recruitment
was not successful, therefore they are considering a consultant.
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans was absent. Andy explained that an initial conference call to plan the WP took
place successfully.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Carsten explained that a new GitHub site for WP5 activities has been
created: https://github.com/PaNOSC-ViNYL
He is also documenting as much as possible (work plan, task breakdowns, etc.) to ensure an easy transition once he leaves his post. 

*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean Francois explained that he has been busy planning the parallel session, talks by EGI, etc.
He requested the contact details of the ESRF contact for WP6.
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - Roby was absent. Ornela explained work on the stakeholder list to interview in the 1st year and 
preparation for the business model canvas.
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was absent. Petra reported work on the parallel session.
She requested the contact details of the ILL contact for WP8 and Jean Francois replied that he will find someone until recruitment
is completed.
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta reported work preparing the parallel session, on the common communication tools, 
communication strategy and the list of communication contacts from all partners. The CFT for the website is ongoing (we expect 
some companies to go for it).

6. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#4](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/4) PaNOSC EB & PMC
  * This issue will be closed after the Kick-off meeting, once all roles confirmed.
* [#6](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/6) Kick-off meeting planning
  * Discussed already on item 1 above
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * Rudolf will talk about this during kick-off.
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  * CA seems to be accepted. Andy will contact ESRF's legal officer to get the document ready for signatures.
* [#21](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/21) Answer EOSC-Hub questions
  * Discussed already on item 2 above
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * Current system for mailing lists has some problems (manual management, no imports, security). The original mailing list 
(panosc@esrf.fr) should be closed too.
* [#23](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/23) Financial Control for PaNOSC
  * No one expressed concerns and some partners actively supported this. Jordi will repeat the concept and approach to controlling
the finances for the project during kick-off. Closed.
* [#24](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/24) EB Agenda for Kick-off meeting
  * Draft agenda shared and discussed. It was agreed that the agenda was suitable for the Executive Board meeting.
Jordi and Andy to share the agenda with the EB mailing list as soon as possible.
    
6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

    Paradyse from ESS

7. _**AOB**_
    
    None

    
