PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 05/06/2019
========================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Axel (ESRF) Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL)

Minutes
-------

ESS staff couldn't attend (national holiday); Andy and Jean-Francois had to leave early (travel) and Florian couldn't join either
(travel), so we had very few participants in this meeting.

1. Upcoming Deliverables and milesontes :

	* D10.1 POPD Requirement. 
		Jordi explained draft is online and feedback is welcome.
		Jean-Francois is OK with the document
		Rudolf made some suggestions regarding adding a bit more text about consent being sought and when data is going to
		be erased.
		Jordi committed to reword the document and notify everyone when it is ready.
	
	* Milestone for stakeholders database missing
		Jordi reminded Dario that the milestone MS7.1 Stakeholder Database Ready is late.
		Dario is unsure what is missing, but will talk with Roberto to have it ready as soon as possible
		Rudolf pointed out that the document is quite complete with very few details missing (e.g. some stakeholders are
		missing their description).
		Jean-Francois pointed out that the questionaire is nto reported in the document to which Rudolf replied that he
		corrected the document, so he felt that was the equivalent to filling in the questionnaire.
	
2. Feedback on deliverables

	Jordi reported that the deliverables due in May (Mid-Year Summary Report, Data Management Plan and Website) were delivered
	on time and thanked everyone that made them possible.
	Regarding the Website there were two comments:
	
	*    Andy would like permissions to edit the website (can the website be used as an information channel?)
	*    Rudolf pointed out the website is slow to load and it is worth checking why and solve it
3. ExPaNDs 

	We briefly discussed the document Andy shared regarding working together with EXPaNDS.
	Rudolf thinks that the document is a good starting point and that the next action should be to write a MoU and then implement
	it.
	There was agreement on the fact that there are plenty of possible synergies between PaNOSC and ExPaNDS, so by working 
	together and not duplicating efforts we could do more. This is specially true of WP6.
	Rudolf suggested that Annual Meetings could be a joint event between PaNOSC and ExPaNDS

4. HDF5 Workshop 
	
	This item was moved into this meeting because we didn't have the time to discuss it last week, but due to low attendance to
	this PMC meeting (conferences and national holidays taking place) we decided to move it to the next PMC meeting.

5. Update from the WP Leaders - update on resources assigned + hiring + work plans
	*    WP1 Management - Jordi reported the deliverables submitted. Dario asked for an Agenda for the next Annual Meeting.
		Jordi will also start to look at the Financial Reporting agreed during 1st EB and kick-off meeting.
	*    WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship - Andy reported work on the draft lessons learned document. Dario will share its link.
	*    WP3 Data Catalog Services - Tobias was absent. No news
	*    WP4 Data Analysis Services - Hans was absent. No news
	*    WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory - Carsten and Manolo absent. No news
	*    WP6 EOSC Integration - Jean-Francois reported that 
	
		-Following the positive discussion on the "UmbrellaID - GEANT partnership" that took place at PSI, he is working
		on a document in order to proceed to the formal vote by the UmbrellaID management team.
		
		-The last telco was very well attended and was dedicated to a presentation from DESY on their Jupyter 
		infrastructure, the level of service for users and automation is really impressive. 
		The slides, as well as some notes, are available on the WP6 repository  
		https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP6%20EOSC%20Integration/WP6%20telco%20%237.md
	*    WP7 Sustainibility - Roberto was absent. Dario reported that a telco is reschedule due to low availability of required
		participants
	*    WP8 Staff training in data stewardship - Thomas as absent. No news
	*    WP9 Outreach &Communication - Nicoletta was absent. Dario asked if anyone is going to the meeting in Tallin. Jordi 
		explained that he cannot go, therefore if we can find another volunteer to attend the meeting that would be good.
		Dario will ask within CERIC-ERIC if it is possible that someone attends this meeting (which is taking place in 
		two weeks!)

5. Review any other existing issues: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
	
	Jordi reported that he closed issues [20](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/20), [28](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/28), [31](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/31) and [35](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/35).
	
	[41](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) There is agreement that we need more refined KPIs. We should look at them and update them and revise them accordingly.
	
	[36](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/36) To remain open, as we need topics for next EB.
	
	[29](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/29) Already treated in point 1
	
	[27](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/27) As Dario said, we need an agenda, not only dates and number of attendees
	
	[25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Jordi to contact WP leaders for updates on the risks
	
	[22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) No news, not a big issue for now, but it would be good to draft clear guidelines for this
	
	[ 9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Jordi pointed out that we may want to have some user organisation observing us,
	not only ExPaNDS. Rudolf said that this is linked to the Stakeholder database
	

6. Job openings and hirings

	Not many news, ESRF still trying to recruit. The last CERIC-ERIC recruit starting soon

7. News from other proposals and events - ExPANDS, EOSCEnhance, FAIRsFAIR, First OASYS School

	Events soon taking place in Turin (attended by Jean-Francois), Tallin (attendance to be confirmed) and Hamburg @ DESY 
	(attended by Rudolf)

8. AOB

	None
