PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 27/02/2019
========================================================


Present
------
Jamie (ILL), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF),  Hans (euXFEL), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela(CERIC-ERIC),
Petra (ESS), Thomas (ESS) and Jonathan (ESS)


Minutes
------
1. _**Update on Deliverable "D9.3 PaNOSC's respository for internal communication" and Confluence due end of February**_

Nicoletta shared the document ahead of the meeting and gave a short introduction to it. The document lists three main
repositories (GitHub by default, Google Docs for multi-edit and CERIC drive for confidential documents). The document 
did not receive any negative feedback from the attendees to the meeting and Jordi plans to submit it to the EC portal 
28/02/2019 around midday after a few minor formatting changes.


2. _**Signing of Consortium Agreement**_

Jordi couldn't report anything because he did not ask the ESRF's Legal Officer about an update. Following the meeting Jordi did
talk with the legal officer, so it can now be reported that a final Consortium Agreement has been dispatched for signature.

3. _**EXPaNDs Funding**_

Jordi reported that ExPaNDs has been funded and that he heard that the proposal mimics PaNOSC. That should allow for plenty of
common work.
Thomas had the opportunity to look at the EXPaNDs proposal and could explain that the project depends on PaNOSC, confirming 
that there should be plenty of synergies  and collaboration.
Rudolf even said that it could be possible to have annual meetings together.
Hans believes that WP4 in both projects are extremely similar.
It was agreed that Rudolf will ask if we can get hold of the proposal and how we can work together.

4. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi reported news about EXPaNDs and that he is ready to engage with them. Jordi also worked with Nicoletta to help on D9.3. Jordi also explained that Petra asked him whether we had a report from the kick-off meeting. The answer is no, however that would be part of the mid-year report, therefore Jordi will work on this item too.
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy was absent. He left a note saying that WP2 is performing an analysis of the commonalities and differences between the existing data policies
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent. Petra reported that Tobias asked whether he can get permission to add new people in GitHub. Jordi couldn't help on this, but will raise it with Andy.
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported ongoing recruitment and two interesting upcoming meetings: Dashboards in Jupyter in Paris and EGI conference in Amsterdam. He would like to know what services would be good to use for WP6. WP4 is missing CERIC participation.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Hans reported slow progress, the idea being pursued is to ask Carsten's new employer to allow him to be employed by XFEL 10% of FTE, so he can carry on overseeing this WP. Both Rudolf and Thomas reminded Hans of EU rules, which could be tricky if Carsten is not employed or seconded directly by one of the partners.
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois was absent. Jamie reported on a conference call with a presentation from CERN. Details are available on https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP6%20EOSC%20Integration/PANOSC_Presentation.pptx 
*    **WP7 Sustainability** - Roberto was absent and Dario reported work on the stakeholders list
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was present and reported no news
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta talked about the logos. The winner is logo #1, however it was agreed by the PMC that it would be good to have a "professional" revision of our current logo which is well liked by all.


6. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * Already talked about in #2
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  * Already talked about in #2
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * No news. Jordi to ask Andy how/whether it is possible to use the name and domain of the mailing lists but manage them with another tool (maybe XFEL could provide the tool for this)
* [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management
  * Jordi reported that he will get help from a member of ESRF's staff for this.
* [#26](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/26) Software Licensing
  * Broad agreement that existing software will continue with their licenses. New software could use MIT licenses or similar.
* [#27](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/27) Annual meeting
  * Rudolf reported that week 43 has been agreed with the Executive Board for the autumn EB meeting and that CERIC-ERIC is likely to offer Trieste as location. In particular it would be Monday 21st October and Tuesday 22nd, as there is a RDA conference from Wednesday onwards and Tiziana (EGI) would like to attend it. Hans said that it would be very useful if it would be possible for some WP contributors to stay one or two days more in order to work together after the second day. Dario will start to look at the details and feedback.
* [#28](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/28) PaNOSC logo
  * Already talked about in #4 - WP9
* [#29](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/29) Deliverable D10.1 POPD Requirement
  * No news, Jordi to look at it
* [#31](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/31) Report on kick-off
  * Already talked about in #4 - WP1. Jordi will start working on this.

5. _**Job openings**_

Rudolf reported positions still open at the ESRF.
Jamie said ILL will have 3 new staff members for PaNOSC within a couple of months
No news from XFEL (except from Carsten's possible 10% hire)
ESS reported progress (secondment agreements in place, sysadmin position to be offered and WP3 will be a contractor)
CERIC-ERIC has hired a soft. engineer for WP3 and negociating with candidates for other positions (expected start date April)

Rudolf said that it would be nice to keep track of all hires, so this can be added to the mid-year report.

6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

7. _**AOB**_
