#+TITLE: WP4 video conference 9 September 2019
#+OPTIONS: num:1

:present: ?

* Actions from last meeting
[[../2019-07-02/notes.org][Minutes from last meeting]]

- add snapshot of discussion/minutes document from workshop last week
  to repository (Hans) [done]
- add agenda to repository as well (for easier reference, Hans) [done]
- add link to indico site [done]
- convert milestones into github issues (or similar) (Robert) [done]
- upload missing talks (ALL)
- convert discussion and plans from kickoff meeting into action (ALL)

* Collaboration with Expands
- Welcome Anton Barty
- EXPaNDS kick-off meeting
  (https://indico.desy.de/indico/event/23649/) 10/11 September Hamburg

* Status update from each facility (< 3 minutes)
- EuXFEL  (Robert)
- ILL (Jamie)
- ESRF (Thomas)
- ESS (Gareth)
- ELI (Jakub)
- CERIC-ERIC (Carlos)

* Updated from Architecture Group (Jamie)

* Update on WP4 Milestones and use of Github (Robert)

* Annual Meeting in Trieste, 4/5 November
- Meeting details at https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/,
- Should we have a WP4 focused workshop on Wednesday
  [/Thursday[/Friday]] after the meeting? (6, 7, 8 November)

* Next steps
- task leaders to organise work towards milestones
- ?

* AoB
