PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 13/03/2019
========================================================


Present
------

Jon (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Dario (CERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jamie (ILL), Florian (ELI), Roberto (EuXFEL), Andy (ESRF)


Minutes
------
1. _**Update on Deliverables D1.1 and D9.3 live documents**_

    Andy presented the Google calendar setup by Nicoletta and asked all WPs leaders to add their events to the calendar so that all those interested can follow or join these events. The calendar is publicly readable and all WP leaders plus a number of PaNOSC members have been invited to have write permission to the calendar. The calendar is available here:

    https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=46e63bjo8vdg6lujlh37mbudg8%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=Europe%2FParis

    Andy said that the deliverables D1.1 and D9.3 will be maintained as live documents and they are now available on the google drive for editing. WP leaders are requested to keep their WP plans in D1.1 uptodate.

2. _**Signing of Consortium Agreement**_

    So far ELI, CERIC, ESS and ESRF have signed.

3. _**Update on budget and deliverables**_

    Andy pointed out that the budget breakdown which was agreed upon while setting up the project should be consulted when there are questions about travel or other indirect costs. However the labelling of items in the budget e.g. as an event or annual meeting, is flexible and budget canbe trasnferred between items in the indirect costs. On the other hand Personnel costs cannot be transferred without amending the GA. 

    Thomas pointed out we should get agreement of the project officer when travelling outside Europe. 

    **TODO**: Jordi to check with the project officer when and how to do this

    Deliverables status

* **D1.2** - May 2019 - Mid-Year Summary (Jordi is on top of this)
* **D1.4** - May 2019 - Data Management Plan (need input, Jordi to contact Thomas to get a copy of the Brightness proposal)
* **D9.2** - May 2019 - PaNSOC website (Nicoletta has this one on track)
* **D9.1** - June 2019 - PaNOSC Communication and Dissemnitation Plan (need to discuss more on this)
* **D1.3** - November 2019 - Annual Workshop Report (after the Annual Meeting in Trieste)
* **D4.1** - November 2019 - Data analysis capture (started)
* **D5.1** - November 2019 - Prototype simulation data formats (not started needs to be discussed)
* **D6.2** - November 2019 - Compute cloud integrated in EOSC (not started needs to be discussed)

4. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi excused, Andy said Jordi was writing up the mid0term report and we were following the deliverables
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - currently filling in analysis table for existing DPS
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - currently filling in state-of-art table for data catalogs, face-2-face meeting in May
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - good engagement at WP meetings with demos, request from Jon and Thomas to make a list of visualisation technologies being looked at
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - no news from EuXFEL about replacing WP leader, ESS has submitted code for a Python API, ESS would like to know when will a WP meeting be organised, ESRF is organising a First School on OASYS (announcement will follow soon)
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - good engagement at meetings from all memebers except ESRF (who are in the process of hiring), FTS3 was presented, Globus to be presented at next meeting, Jean-Francois and GÉANT are working together on AAI
*    **WP7 Sustainability** - working on the Stakeholders list, will soon be shared with all PaNOSC members
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - ESS discussing how to migrate the learning platform to ESS platforms, ESRF asked when it will be possible to get help to start making e-learning videos
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - CERIC will soon meet the company building the website, new logo proposal is almost ready, a conference for RIs is planned where WP9 plans to have a face-2-face meeting (link?)


6. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. No major changes.  

5. _**Job openings**_

    Not discussed

6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

    Jon is going to FAIRsFAIR, ILL will participate in EOSCEnhance on behalf of PaNOSC

7. _**AOB**_

    Andy was interviewed for the ELI Newsletter on PaNOSC
