PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 29/01/2019
========================================================

Present
------

Jamie (ILL), Petra (ESS),  Jordi (ESRF), Axel (ESRF), Hans (euXFEL), Florian (ELI-DC),
Dario (CERIC-ERIC)

Minutes
------
1. _**Deliverable D1.1 Project Initiation Documentation - information urgently needed**_

    Jordi informed that he was still missing information for WP8 Approach and informed ESS of this. Petra replied that Thomas
    was fully aware and that the section would be completed the following day (30/01/2019) in time for the submission.
  
2. _**Job openings**_

    Jordi informed that ESRF recruitment is ongoing
    Jamie informed that ILL has 3 post open (they will be open for 3 weeks) and that he expects new startes for May. For WP5
he is unsure who will do the work
    Dario informed that CERIC-ERIC is closing a position tomorrow
    Petra informed that ESS has hired a person (starting 1st March), there is a second recruitment process and the 3rd hired
will be an external consultant
    Hans said that euXFEL already hired one person, another is bookmarked for later on in the year. He was unsure what is going
on with Carsten (WP5 leader) replacement and that he would try to find out
    Florian claried who internally at ELI and pillars would work on WP3, WP4, WP5 and WP6. A person would be hired at ELI-DC
for WP2 + internal coordination. A futher person will be hired for WP8 by ELI-DC but that person will be placed at one of the
pillars. Florian also stated that issues at the pillars make it difficult to hire at that level, so he is trying to go around
them somehow. 

    There was a reminder to everyone to tweet links to open positions with the #PaNOSC

3. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi explained that he is awaiting completion of D1.1 to submit it. Jordi also assigned risks to 
WP leaders (Risks that apply to all WPs will be assigned to Jordi).
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy was absent (in London for ESFRI meeting). Jordi had nothing to report. 
Florian however reported changes in legistlation about Open Science. He suggested to look at how each country is legislating
or not and whether laws are harmonised or could create any trouble for PaNOSC. 
**A link to the item that Florian mentioned would go here**
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** -  Tobias was absent. Petra reported a conference call next week.
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported that a meeting of WP4 took place and the minutes are available in GitHub
Jamie explained that during the meeting a few issues were raised:

1st: How best to store the software? A new GitHub repository? A new repository for each software? Jordi suggested that whatever
the choice it should be clear from our current repository where to find the others and what are for (that could be as easy as a
wiki page with links)

2nd: Licensing for the development: MIT - BSD license? We would like to have harmonised licenses for everything so it is easy
to manage. Hans asked what was written in the proposal. Jordi agreed to submit a [new issue](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/26) for this. 

3rd: Mailing lists are not great: its management is not easy and a better system is rerquired. Hans suggested that XFEL could help
with this.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Carsten was absent. Petra reported no news
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois was absent. Jamie reported a first meeting booked for the WP
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - Roberto explained that he needs volunteers from each partner to help him with WP7. An email will be
sent to management.
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was absent. Petra reported no news.
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta was absent. Dario reported conversations with EGI for having Confluence

4. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * We have decided to let this open until we receive confirmation regarding the financing of EXPaNDS
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  Awaiting only ESS and EGI to agree.
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * Issue to remain open, the way we have to manage mailing lists isnot ideal
* [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management
  * Risks assigned to each WP. Risks affecting all WPs to be assigned to Jordi. Risks affecting only some WPs will need 
discussion between WP leaders.
    
5. _**News from other proposals and events**_

    Some people are in London for the ESFRI meeting.
    Hans reported work in the BOSSEE proposal that aligns well with further work on Jupyter. If funded could be interesting.

7. _**AOB**_
    
    Nothing

    
