PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 06/02/2019
========================================================

Present
------
Jean-Francois (ILL), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Axel (ESRF), Lajos (ELI-ALPS), Hans (euXFEL), 
Thomas (ESS), Jonathan (ESS), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC)


Minutes
------
1. _**Feedback from ESFRI meeting in London**_

Andy explained that it is not clear what the EC wants of the EOSC and how. He believes it is up to the clusters to
do the work and there is no leadership/direction for the EOSC.
Jean-Francois agreed and said that at least people are looking at PaNOSC and are interested in what we are doing.
Rudolf found the meeting informative. He pointed out that there were mostly political stakeholders with an average
age of around 60, a symptom that we are not engaging enough the doers. Rudolf explained that the EOSC could suffer
from its governance structure, so cluster projects will need to link with each other.
Andy continued by explaining that he met with FAIRsFAIR and that we could work together. He also said that our 
Project Officer asked us to join a working group (RDA?). He thinks that we need to be careful deciding what options
we explore and with whom we work.
Rudolf said that there is as well GoFAIR
Jonathan thought that it is unclear what the EOSC is and its direction. There is very little clarity, therefore he
said that we must build our own model and obtain best practices from other cluster projects.
Andy also said that he was dissapointed that there wasn't a NEXT STEPS sections in the meeting for the EOSC
Jordi said that it could be difficult to work with other cluster projects with the current budget split of the project,
to which Jean-Francois replied that there is a bit of effort reserved for this in WP6. Rudold thought that budget 
won't be a problem, but nevertheless we should be careful about how we do it. Also national stakeholders are moving
in parallel of us, so we need to take this into account to avoid going in all directions.
Andy said that we should focus in our project and be useful to our users first
Hans proposed to focus on getting a working solution first, and then see how we can all cluster projects converge
Jean-Francois pointed out that we need to be careful, as the EC is asking us to work with other cluster projects 
and we cannot ignore them
Jonathan said that yes, but we should still solve our problems first.


2. _**Deliverable "D9.3 PaNOSC's respository for internal communication" due end of February**_

Nicoletta explained that conversations with EGI have started in order to have access to their Confluence. A conf. 
call may take place next week. It was agreed that the person from EGI will be invited to the next PMC and have 15
minutes to explain the proposed solution.
Andy pointed out that we do not want Jira, just Confluence
Jean-Francois explained that he heard Tiziana say that access to EGI's Confluence is linked to their LDAP, therefore
some work is required for external users (like us) to access it

3. _**Job openings**_

Andy reported that one post is open at the ESRF
Jean-Francois still has two positions open at the ILL (one infrastructrure, the other web development)
Hans explained that Carsten replacement could be a PhD that worked with Carsten and knows the subject well, however
negotiations and agreement with his current employer are required.
Thomas reported no news from ESS. One post is still open
Dario reported interviews ongoing at CERIC-ERIC
Lajos said that ELI-DC would hire for WP2 a person, and ELI-Beamlines for WP4. ELI-ALPS may get ELI-DC to hire 
someone for them.

4. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi reported work on GDPR notices (over 80% of kick-off attendees agreed); submission of
D1.1 Project Initiation Documentation and attending 07/02 and 08/02 the kick-off meeting of ESCAPE cluster project.
Andy suggested to keep the Project Initiation Documentation alive, so it is used as an introduction and guide of 
how we work and how we are organised. This suggestion gathered support.
Andy also asked Jordi to share information about D10.1 and the email received from our Project Officer. Jordi said he
will share this information with the management mailing list.
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy reported no news except for contact with FAIRsFAIR
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent. Thomas reported a video conference this Friday
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported a biweekly video conference, so no news until next week. Andy
will provide Hans with some use cases from CalypsoPLUS and PSI
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Hans refered to Carten's replacement comment in the Job Openings
section
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois reported the first telco yesterday, with face to face meetings at 
some conference possible. EGI also proposed training for staff in these conference meetings. He added the minutes of
the telco to GitHub. Also, next telcos will include presentations of FTS, Globus and OneData.
Jean-Francois asked Hans to send him a candidate service to be the first in the EOSC (and a expected date for this).
Lajos said that he fins difficult that task leaders and deliverable owners are not the same.
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - No news, but Nicoletta said further info will be available from Ornela soon
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas said that they have not started yet
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta reported progress with the website supplier

5. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * We have decided to let this open until we receive formal confirmation regarding the financing of EXPaNDS
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  Andy reported positive progress. He shared infor with ESRF's legal officer (Renata) who hopefully will share
the CA for signing soon
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * Issue to remain open, the way we have to manage mailing lists isnot ideal
* [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management
  * Jordi will ask WP leaders to decide who owns the risk that affects only two WPs
* [#26](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/26) Software Licensing
  * Andy said this was answered in WP4. A lot of development is based on existing products, so we will need to 
continue with their license. For brand new software developed the license choice should be responsibility of the
WP leader or dev. group.
Hans pointed out that some licenses could be exclusive, so we need to be careful.
    
6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

Hans shared BOSSE proposal website
Thomas also submitted a proposal

7. _**AOB**_

Rudolf wanted to talk about future dates for a face-to-face Executive Board meeting and Annual Conference for PaNOSC.
This could happen in Trieste, but it is not so clear at this point. Unfortunately the network cut at that point and 
we overran the 1 hour allocated to the conference call, therefore Rudolf Dimper will share this information in the 
management mailing list.    

    
