#+TITLE: WP4 Video meeting <2020-03-24 Tue 15:00>

:present: Andrey (ELETTRA], Loic (ESRF?), Andy (ESRF), Axel
(ESRF), Emiliano (CERIC), Andrea (CERIC-ERIC), Sandor (EuXFEL), Aidan (ESRF),
Lottie, Franz, Jakub, Chris, Robert Rosca, Thomas Kluyver, Alex (DLS), Jiri
(ELI), Thomas V (ESRF), George (ELETTRA), Jonathan (ESS), Uwe (?), Will (ILL),
Anton (DESY), Hans (EuXFEL), probably more.

* Portal architecture and prototype discussion

Discussion of feedback from all sites as discussed in the last meeting
(https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-03-10/notes.org)

We are interested in 2 questions, addressed from each site:

1. The portal deployment at your institute. Installation documentation can be
   found here: https://github.com/panosc-portal/panosc-portal-demo-deployment

2. The common portal design. The documentation can be found here:
   https://confluence.panosc.eu/x/lwCm 

The written summaries are available at https://confluence.panosc.eu/x/cIAVAQ

** ELI
Jiri: new to Kubernetes, installed with Helm, trouble with internal networking done correctly.
Happy with architecture as far as understandable at the moment; more constructive feedback later.
** ESRF
Aidan: deployed on existing Kubernetes cluster, involved in Architecture, thus no complaints.
** ESS
Lottie: issues with documentation, otherwise got it to work. No issues with architecture.
** EuXFEL
Robert:
- deploying on personal computer is easy
- use with kubernetes/openstack is not feasible
- need Slurm support for analysis processes

Anton (DESY):
- technical problems with containers having access to GPFS
Chris (DLS):
- expose file system to containers through Kubernetes host path
- starting notebook jobs on condor cluster has been seen to work
Thomas K:
- Slurm backend is envisaged in the design
- Further discussion with Aidan, Thomas K, Robert, Chris, -> separate discussion, see actions
** ILL
(happy)
** CERIC-ERIC
George: 
- attempt to deploy directly on production cluster
- lacks OpenStack but is Kubernetis cluster
- Marco will know more

Architecture: no complaints at this stage.

Questions about verification services. 

For CERIC and ELETRA: integration to the VUO is important
- data catalog: is it going to be part of the portal?

Andy: 
- Overlap with data portal is not clear; should not have duplication but
  complementary.
- Should link the architecture of data and analysis 

** STFC / ISIS
Franz: 
- cloud used does not suopprt Kubernetes (OpenStack is too old; update is not guaranteed)
- installing on own laptop works, documentation is very sparse
- lack of testing procedure to check that installation worked okay

Chris (DLS):
- caught up in setting up home office services etc
- comment: one can try google cloud as alternative to laptop

** Discussion
- should run on infra-structure; 
- running it on a laptop is not sufficient.

- Is there (scientific) test data in the installation?
  - not yet

- Will central portal forward queries, i.e. is the assumption that data is always local?
  - undecided; waiting for WP6 regarding data access
  - Andy: meta portal should be point of access for all data
  - Each facility needs to run its own instance of the portal/service

- Jupyter Service Robert: JupyterHub providing the notebook service or do we
  create a separate service which spawns Jupyter Notebooks and manages them
  themselves?
  - Jamie: notebook services will manage the resources (as what JupyterHub usually does)
    - interface like JupyterHub's
    - but providing micro services to manage resources
  - Andy: Are people happy with this? Does it conflict with existing JupyterHub clusters?
    [discussion on this. Can JupyterHub co-exist with PaNOSC portal? -> Follow up meeting; see actions]

- integration with Virtual Unified Office (VUO)
- support of traditional clusters is important (Slurm)
- Performance of reading data in docker containers
- singularity as alternative to docker

- Other points (not discussed yet):
  - given federated access, how do we manage compute resource useage?

- Anton: Access to real data is important. Use the backend you will use in the end. (For EuXFEL/DESY: Slurm)

Robert: Training on OpenStack available from DESY - anybody interested? (Jiri, Franz, Lottie, Andrea, Jakum, Anton, ...)

** Actions:
Further exploration of:
- Slurm integration
- JupyterHub conflict / use?

-> Hans inviting expressions of interest by email, and initiate meeting subsequently.

* Review meeting (postponed to next meeting)
- Video meeting instead of in-person meeting
- Storyboards at https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-06-review-meeting/storyboards.md
  - Story outlines (ideas where discussed [[https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-02-25/notes.org#presentation-at-review-meeting-robert-r-juncheng-thomas-k][here]])
    - [ ] Thomas K / JunCheng / Thomas Holm Rod (Neutron example and/or crystallography?)
    - [ ] Thomas V: blue paint
    - [ ] Jakub: Science story
    - [ ] Jakub: Portal / user interface
    - [X] Robert: reproducible paper
    - [X] Robert: new analysis on existing data
    - [ ] ILL: Remote Desktop example
    - [ ] ? : Demo remote analysis using Jupyter Notebook 

* Next meeting

7 April 2020, 15

* Any other business

- Axel (ESRF): Latest HDF5 viewer development (HSDS POSIX adapter, metadata viewer,
  visualization selector, data providers)
  - h5view for the web? Yes - usable in Jupyter Notebook and Jupyter Lab
  - Anton: import array into notebook - when clicked - would be a good feature

* Actions
- ALL: let Hans know if interested to join discussions on Slurm/JupyterHub integration/co-existence for the PaNOSC portal.
- Hans: initiate follow up meeting with interested parties
- ALL: Test deployment of portal prototype on production hardware; at least get the right people involved 
       who would need to run this on the production system. 
- ALL: Provide ongoing feedback in coming months and engage in architecture discussion.
- Thomas K, JunCheng, Jakub, ILL: provide story boards for Review meeting (see above)
