# PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 26/08/2020

### Present
Rudolf (ESRF), Angela (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Thomas (ESS), Jean-François (ESRF), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC)

### Minutes

#### 1. Planning of the allocation of resources (effort) for WP7 until the end of the project (requested by the project management)
Ornela explains that during the last PMC, Jordi asked the WP leaders to prepare a plan for the allocation of resources in the WP and to WP7 in particular, to set some milestones since there are none in the grant agreement. Thomas suggests to start from the allocation prepared for the budget allocation while writing the project. Ornela will ask Jordi to share this information and propose it to the partners for any necessary adjustment.

#### 2.	Milestones (requested by the project management)
Ornela shows a proposal for the [work breakdown per task](WP%20Documents/Tasks%20duration%20and%20work%20breakdown.xlsx), asking partners to take a look and comment either by email or during next WP meeting. Rudolf suggests to add a subtask to task 7.1, open until the end of the project, to introduce an explicit a reference to the collection of feedback from stakeholders and its report in one of the deliverables. For the report there are at least two possible solutions: we can ask the Project Officer to reject the first version of the deliverable D7.1 (already submitted) and upload the second version with the stakeholders’ feedback, or we can include these feedbacks in another deliverable (e.g D 7.4). 
In [the same table]((WP%20Documents/Tasks%20duration%20and%20work%20breakdown.xlsx)), there is a proposal for the milestones. Ornela invites all to send comments and suggestions via email or to discuss them during the next meeting.

#### 3.	Introduction of Angela Zennaro
Our CERIC colleague will be involved in task 7.3 (business model). Angela will follow the contact with the partners ILO’s.

#### 4.	Costs collection (progress, issues) 
Considering there were the summer holidays since last meeting, there is no significant progress in the cost collection exercise.
Jean-François informs that he had concluded the collection for ILL before leaving, the file is available [here](Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC/metrics%20and%20cost%20model_V2_ILL.xlsx)
The file to use for the cost collection is available [here](Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC/metrics%20and%20cost%20model_V2.xlsx)
Rudolf suggests to create a new mailing lists only for task 7.2. 
Regarding the missing partners, Jean-François suggested to contact Philippe Le Brouster for ILL. Ornela will contact him and try also to get someone from XFEL. 
#### 5.	 The next meeting will be on Wednesday 09 September 2020 from 11.00 to 12.00.


### Actions for next meeting:
- [x] Get from Jordi the file with the initial allocation of resources for WP7 (Ornela)
- [ ] Check the allocation of resources for WP7 and inform Ornela of any necessary change (all)
- [ ] Check the definition of subtasks and propose any necessary change or addition (all)
- [ ] Check proposed milestones and propose any necessary change or addition (all)
- [ ] Upload the filled [cost collection file](Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC/metrics%20and%20cost%20model_V2.xlsx) in the folder of [taks 7.2](Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC/metrics%20and%20cost%20model) (all except from ILL)
- [ ] Propose any necessary change or addition to the cost collection template (all)
- [x] Contact Philippe Le Brouster for ILL (Ornela)
- [x] Contact XFEL and get a representative for WP7
