PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - Review Meeting preparation - 06/05/2020
============================================================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL),  Nicoletta (CERIC),  Jean-François (ILL), Thomas (ESS), Tobias(ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Carsten (WP7 former leader) and Giuseppe (EGI)


Minutes
-------	

**1. List of invited attendees for the meeting ([see Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0))** 

The attendees reviewed the list available in the ([Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0)) and decided that:
* Tiziana (EGI) won't be invited as we already have Giuseppe representing EGI (and supporting WP6)
* No one from Géant will be invited, however we may invite them in future meetings / reviews
* We need to confirm ASAP whether someone from ExPaNDS will attend
* WP4 has included a list for the demo
* Any other WP that requires further attendees or if anyone would like to invite a person should communicate this by 20th May (and add it to the spreadsheet).


**2. Review Report template - [editable version for us here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit?dls=true)**

It was agreed that Jordi will do a first read and will start writing something in the document, assigning / requesting support as required. 

Florian suggested that any text should be short, concise and highlighting where we are. Ornela added that we should say that we are following the Grant Agreement and  say if we are deviating from it, to which Florian added that it is important to explain/define our approach as many things were just sketch in the GA and we are refining them now as we advance.

It was agreed that any text should refer to our deliverables already submitted, giving context for them instead of just repeating information already privided via deliverables.

**3. Review Meeting content & structure***

During the [last PMC for the Review meeting](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Meetings/Project%20Management%20Committee/2020-04-22-PMC_ReviewMeeting/2020-04-22-PMC_Summary.md) we suggested a possible timetable: 

    Morning
        A first short section (up to one hour) to introduce the project
        A second longer section (around 2 hours) for the demos that we want to do
            This will include introductions to demos / WP as appropriate
    Afternoon
        A third section for presentations (focusing on WPs that cannot do demos)
        A final section to let some time for interactions with the PO & Reviewer (~ 2 hours)

Jean-François said that this felt very long (around 5 hours of demos/presentations) and that it would be good if all our demos/presentations could fit in the morning, so the PO & Reviewer can discuss during the lunch break before having the afternoon interactive Q/A section. 

A few exchanges followed to analyse the lenght of the WP4 demo (~90 minutes with presentation, 6 demos and conclusions) that would also include WP5. Tobias added that using the search API could be added to this demo, 

**THIS IS NOT FINISHED!!!!**

**6. Planning the review meeting**

All participants agreed on these actions and deadlines:

| item to prepare | info | dates |
| --------------- | ---- | ---- |
| Prepare demos | | from now until rehearsal date (5th June) |
| Prepare presentations | *using KPIs?* | from now until rehearsal date (5th June) | 
| Prepare draft M18 Review Report | *and send it to PO/Reviewer* | from now until 1st June |
| Submitting May deliverables | | until end of May the latest |
| Requesting financial info | *up to end of May*| 1st June |
| Rehearsal | | 5th June, all afternoon|
| **Review meeting** | | 16th June |
| Obtain Financial info | | latest 20th June |
| Complete M18 Review Report | | 10th July |
| Submit M18 Review Report | | 31st July |




