PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 28/08/2019
=======================================================================

Present
-------
Knut (ExPaNDS), Andy (ESRF), Axel (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), John (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Tobias (ESS) and Dario (CERIC-ERIC)


Minutes
-------

1. Annual Meeting in Trieste

Dario reported a meeting last week, and the available agenda online: https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/
The planned event is over two days, from 14:00h until 18:00h the 4th November and from 08:00 until 18:00h 5th November. Satellite
discussions to follow the day(s) after.
Andy explained that the slots are proposed so not all WP talks are in a row, but mixed up with other subjects (FAIR data, scientists,
EOSC, etc.) to make the event more varied. 
All agreed that the lenght of the timeslots for each talk (15 to 25 minutes depending on the subject) seemed correct. The slots 
called *FAIR Data @ Partner Institute* are to talk about best use cases of FAIRness at each partner. 
Jordi pointed out that it would be to have KPIs around these talks and show what is our target at the end of the project.
Andy suggested to invite everyone that signed a support letter for PaNOSC. Dario will contact them based on the support letters 
attached at the end of the proposal.
Andy also explained that so far, two satellite meetings from 6th November have been proposed: WP2 and also WP5+ WP8 joint meeting.
Tobias said that he has a WP3 meeting planned soon and then he will be able to clarify whether WP3 needs a satellite meeting.
Dario requested confirmation about Satellite meetings by the next PMC, so he can reserve the meeting rooms.
Knut asked whether registration is open to ExPaNDS WP Leaders  and Andy replied yes


2. Issues https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

Jordi reminded everyone about the Internal milestones and asked everyone leading a WP to reply the issue with their proposed 
internal milestones. As a reminder, if a WP has 4 or 5 months in a row without submitting a milestone or deliverable we should have
an internal milestone to help us control progress done in the WP. More internal milestones could be suggested if useful
https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43

Jordi also talked about the KPIs and asked everyone to contribute to the Google doc: 
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iivsvBrix4v6lmC2U3sOC6YEXFeY0JzXHTM9QQQZwiY/edit#gid=2060225314

Regarding the financial control report, Jordi just reminded that we agreed to complete the report by the end of September.
Jordi suggested that a single person at each partner site is charged with this task. More information about the data to be 
provided is available on https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/45

3. News from other proposals and events

Andy submitted a repository for certification to FAIRsFAIR and asked all other partners to participate on this initiative. Also,
certified repositories would help us having a FAIRness target and be a nice KPI for our progress.
If any input is to be given to the joint EOSC project meeting taking place in Brussels 9th and 10th September this needs to be
given before end of play Friday 30th August .
The ExPaNDS kick-off meeting is planned for 11th and 12th September. Knut said that the afternoon of the 12th September is now 
open, so observers (PaNOSC) can attend these sessions. Unfortunately Andy and Jordi have already booked their flights, but someone
else could maybe attend these sessions.
Cluster meeting @ RDA 21st October in Helsinki: Tobias said that he may be able to attend and represent PaNOSC.


4. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems

WP1 Management: Jordi was on leave the last two weeks and nothing to report.

WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy reported a planned meeting for WP2 next week. **Also Guide to become a handbook?**

WP3 Data Catalog Services: Tobias said that they are looking at NeXus files and finalising organisation of a workshop. They are also
trying to align work with ExPaNDS.

WP4 Data Analysis Services: Hans was absent. Andy said that "E" was hired at XFEL. Thomas asked if the WP had looked at the ISIS/STFC Data Analysis-as-a-Service system which is in operation. The attendants were not able to answer that question.

WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory: Minutes of the last meeting (from Monday) are available in the PaNOSC-ViNYL GitHub repository at https://github.com/PaNOSC-ViNYL/ViNYL-project/wiki/Meeting-notes

WP6 EOSC Integration: Jean-Francois was absent. Andy reported that Umbrella accepts that GÃ©ant will manage AAI. This is important 
and will have interesting implications. WP6 was awaiting this to materialise.

WP7 Sustainibility: Roberto was absent. Thomas said the next meeting for this WP will take place in September

WP8 Staff training in data stewardship: Thomas said there was a meeting today and the minutes are available in GitHub: 
https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/2019-08-28_ESS_Weekly.md
Next week they will discuss internal milestones and KPIs for this WP. 
Andy asked whether this WP will have something to show for the Annual meeting in Trieste and Thomas said yes.

WP9 Outreach & Communication: Nicoletta was absent and Dario couldn't give any news. It was agreed that all the promotional videos
and interviews filmed should be provided to her, so she can upload them to promote and raise awareness about PaNOSC.

6. AOB

Andy explained that Jamie (ILL) setup a site with Confluence for PaNOSC. Unfortunately the site was down during the call.
**Link to the site**

The next PMC meeting clashes with ExPaNDS kick-off meeting, so it is unclear whether it will take place or instead will be moved
to 18th or 25th September.




