PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 18/03/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Juncheng (XFEL), Jonathan(ESS), Jamie (ILL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario(CERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS) and Giuseppe (EGI)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Proposed reviewer** 

Andy shared an email from our Project Officer that introduced a candidate reviewer and Jordi asked whether anyone had an issue with the candidate reviewer or a conflict of interest. The attendees did not know the reviewer but there was agreement that the reviewer looks qualified for the task.

Jordi will send a reminder asking everyone to say something before the end of the week if there is an issue with this.

Andy stated that the meeting will take place in the 2nd half of June and will be done remotely.


**2. Update on Milestone 8.3 pan-learning.org up and running** 

There is a meeting for the WP8 scheduled 18/03/2020 at 14:30h (immediately after the PMC meeting) and it was said that:

*Only thing missing now is a welcome page and to get it running under the pan-learning.org. AAI, single sign on, and connection to EOSC was discussed, where a EOSC meeting in Amsterdam was supposed to give some input. Due to COVID-19 this meeting was cancelled. ESS will get in contact with Jean-Francois about this matter. The e-learning platform is running on a virtual machine at ESS. Access to ESS cluster and cloud computing resources should be setup.*

*Design for new e-learning platform Thomas mentioned that we need a design for the e-learning platform and Florian confirmed that ELI probably could do this. The work probably boils down to working CCS according. Florian and Thomas will discuss in seperate meeting how to proceed.*

*Updates from ExPaNDS: Nothing to report. Waiting for e-learning platform to be ready for use.*


Jonathan explained that the key person from Copenhanguen University is on long-term sick and that a the task of finding a replacement is ongoing.

Thomas clarified later that a person has been found (that already worked in e-neutrons), however details about the contract have to be ironed out.

Andy explained that it is important that the website is available soon, as ExPaNDS is relying on this (if a solution cannot be found they may create their own learning/training solution).


**3. Update on Deliverable 7.1 PaNOSC Stakeholder Feedback**
**4. Feedback to WP7 *→ see Ornela's email from 05/03***

Dario explained that a meeting for WP7 took place last week and that D7.1 draft is advanced. The email from Ornela is to ask everyone to contribute suggesting questions to stakeholders for future questionnaires, in particular:

*What question should be made to what kind of stakeholder and when*

Jordi will create a Google document that could be edited concurrently so everyone can easily contribute and also read each others contributions for this request for help from Ornela.

Rudolf suggested to include the most important questions obtained via this feedback in the deliverable D7.1.

Dario also said that work on D7.2 has started by drafting cost metrics (in a confidential document) and a meeting will take place next week.


**5. INFRAEOSC-03 update**

Rudolf explained that the proposal is not advancing as well as it could and that the submission deadlines for InfraEOSC-03 and 07 have been moved back by two months to 18th June.

It is still not clear how the RIs partners could join the Consortium (full beneficiaries is not the preferred approach of the Commission).

There is also the question whether UK partners can join the proposal and there is no answer to this up to now.

WP definitions are advancing, however the descriptions are very theoretical and not sufficiently clear or practical according to Rudolf.

There was a videoconference 17/03 for two hours with 35 people, however he felt that there is a lack of overall coodination.

Rudolf will notify the InfraEOSC-03 consortium that the PaNOSC partners have little time to engage in INFRAEOSC 03, however ILL may participate and DESY and PSI have shown interest in participating too. Diamond and Soleil may want to participate as well.

Florian asked about Technopolis and their role as Coordinator and Rudolf explained that while it seems that the Commission would prefer a different Coordinator for the project (so Technopolis would only coordinate the proposal) no concrete action is being taken to change this, so it is well possible that Technopolies remains the project coordinator.

**5. Update on PaNOSC space on Zenodo and upload deliverables to generate a DOI**

Nicoletta explained that she found out that Carsten had created a Zenodo community for PaNOSC already last year and that rather than creating a new one we are using the existing one. The curator for this community in Zenodo is publications@panosc.eu and Jordi and Andy have access to it.

It was clarified that ExPaNDS has its own Zenodo community separated from ours.

It was also clarified that while anyone can upload content to Zenodo and link it to a community, the curators (for now Andy and Jordi) will need to validate it. For now, in order to keep things simple only PMC members will be expected to upload content to PaNOSC's community in Zenodo.

It was agreed as well that Jordi will send an email to PMC members to update their information in the [stakeholders page](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/PaNOSC-Stakeholders), so it contains their ORCid.

**6. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

* **WP9 - Outreach & Communication** : Nicoletta explained that progesss is being done in the DOI video, with the script being rewritten (to change ILL references to PaN sources) and logos from different RIs to be added. Nicoletta will share the script so everyone could contribute.

Jean-Francois suggested to involve Datacite as they could help.

Nicoletta also explained that the website has been updated adn that many events all over europe have been cancelled.

Andy asked news about the Open Science Forum in Trieste and Nicoletta answered that there are no news from the organisation, however she thinks that it will be cancelled.



* **WP8 - Staff training in data stewardship** : Thomas explained that a meeting for WP8 will take place immediately after the PMC and more details are available here:  https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/Monthly-2020-03-18.md

Thomas explained that the face to face meeting has been cancelled due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and that he is expecting MS8.3 to be ready by the end of the month.

Andy also explained that hte Hercules school took place remotely with up to 60 attendees.


* **WP7 - Sustainibility** : Ornela was absent. Dario reinstated the points 3 and 4 of the agenda, which summarised the main hot topics for WP7 at the moment.

Ornela sent an email stating that:

*Regarding D7.1, the progress report would be the following: the draft is being modified according to the partner’s feedback. The idea is to achieve soon a final version ready to be submitted in May. IF we manage to collect some feedback from stakeholders before, we will include it in the document, otherwise we will submit it as it is.*


* **WP6 - EOSC Integration** : Jean-Francois explained that he received feedback from Globus Connect and it is more expensive than what he thought (150K€/year for the six RIs in PaNOSC) which in his view is too expensive.

AAI: progressing well, moving into 2nd step, to get attributes from users. The 3rd step to follow will be to move the service providers to the new infrastructure.

Giussepe said tha integration data transfer pilot and UmbrellaID integration are done and that he is testing it with Jupyter Notebooks.

Jean-Francois also said that the AAI trainign has been cancelled after discussions with Géant.

Andy asked whether there is an alternative to Globus or any other news regarding the file transfer to which Jean-Francois replied that FTS has only been tested for archiving and not file transfer. FTS is difficult that could replace Globus as it is not as usuer friendly, however development is ongoing. Giuseppe confirmed that FTS could not replace Globus yet.


* **WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** : Juncheng reported that a face to face meeting was moved to remote, however he still plans to have a face to face meeting once the COVID-19 pandemic is over.

Juncheng asked how best to test the simulation API within a PaNOSC framework. An ongoing discussion took place to clarify that if resources are required these can be obtained via EGI and that it is required that WP5, WP6, WP4 and WP3 work together to ensure a compatible way of working. Andy suggested that Juncheng contacts Hans to get the data portal.


* **WP4 Data Analysis Services** : Hans was absent. Jamie reported that Robert Rosca (XFEL) got contacted by Cern about the portal architecture and that a meeting with them will take palce. Jamie reported as well that the CodeCamp was delayed.

He encouraged all RIs to try the portal, check its architecture and specs and provide feedback.

Thomas asked whether the work being done by ESRF and Ceric on HDF5 is being coordinated to ensure that is useful to all institutes and Andy replied by asking who in ESS is the contact for WP4 and he/she should get involved. There is plenty of work ongoing on HDF5 viewers and he expects the final solution to be good for everyone. Finally Andy recommended to contact Axel and Loic for more details.

Andy said that he will share the Icat meeting presentation


* **WP3 - Data Catalog Services** : Tobias excused himself for not having ready the KPIs for the work package. He reported an Icat face to face meeting and discussing the possibility of harvesting open metadata. 

Work on the Search API is ogoing and there is broad agreeemnt for its version 1.0, however Gareth is leaving 25th March which will create problems.

Andy asked what's the plan to replace Gareth and Tobias replied that a contractor that was helping him has been hired and there is agreement at ESS to find a replacement.


* **WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship** : Andy reported a draft v4 of the Data Policy Framework and that work to analyse FAIR how it matches with it will follow.


* **WP1 - Management** : Jordi explained that after asking for KPIs for the WP leaders that have not yet provided some figures he will also asked to everyone that has a risk assigned to review it and comment on it.


**AOB**

Andy asked for a dedicated Review Meeting, so we start to focus more on it. A report should be ready at the beginning of June, with the remote review meeting expected to take place in the 2nd half of June.



















