PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 29/01/2020
=======================================================================

Present
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Jean-François (ILL), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Thomas (ESS)


Minutes
-------
•	A new agenda has been approved to include the requests by Rudolf:

1-	D 7.1 - Photon and Neutron EOSC Stakeholder Feedback

2-	Feedback on the Tinman report 

3-	Connection with ExPANDS

4-	New deputy of WP 7 

5-	AOB  

•	D 7.1 - Photon and Neutron EOSC Stakeholder Feedback

 RP explained that the title is misleading. The description of the deliverable is more clear. It will include the stakeholders list, the methodology, the tools we will use for the stakeholders’ survey. The first draft of this deliverable will be ready within the end of February 2020 and Roberto will take care of that. Jean-Francois said that we should include the stakeholders’ survey in this deliverable and Roberto said that the purpose of this deliverable is just to define the stakeholders and the way we will collect feedback from them as at the moment we don’t have a cost model, metrics, business model or sustainability model ready. The communication channels with the stakeholder will be defined jointly with Nicoletta and it will probably be part of the PaNOSC website. 

•	Feedback on the Tinman report 

 Roberto reported that this Tinman report is not very different from the Strowman document and yet too generic. We decided to send a single feedback that will includes all the comments from the PaNOSC partners. In this regards, CERIC will collect the comments by all the partners within Monday 03 February 2020. All the partners are requested to send an email to the wp7 mailing list by Monday 03 February 2020. On Tuesday 04 February 2020 CERIC will produce a single document in which every comments will be included. On Wednesday 05 February 2020 the last review meeting will take place from 11.00 to 12.00 and on the following day the feedback will be upload in the portal from Roberto or Rudolf (TBD). 

•	Connection with ExPANDS

ExPANDS doesn’t have a sustainability work package but they have to write a certain number of deliverables related to this topic. Roberto proposed to invite Valentina Piffer (PSI), which is part of the ExPANDS team, to our WP 7 meetings. All the present agreed on this proposal. 

•	New deputy of WP 7

Ornela de Giacomo will be deputy work package leader for WP 7 ad interim as Roberto is going to be very busy with other activities at least until June 2020. Despite that he will collaborate in order to ensure the correct execution of the WP. 

•	AOB

Nothing to report

