PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 23/10/2019
========================================================


Present
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy(ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Florian (ELI-DC), Juncheng (XFEL), Jean-Francois (ILL), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), 
Knut (ExPaNDS), Petra (ESS) and Jonathan (ESS).

Minutes
-------	


**1. Annual conference in Trieste - update** 

Dario explained that everyone that registered for Wednesday and/or Thursday will receive an email from Elettra with the credentials.
The timetable for the buses to Elettra is also available in Indico within the supporting information of the event.

Dario requested (and has been accepted) to swap WP9 and WP2 in the agenda. The agenda will be updated shortly to show WP9 on the
first day.

Rudolf asked whether we had confirmation from Tiziana for a presentation about **WHAT TOPIC?, please complete**. Andy wasn't very
sure as there is no slot for this. Andy will confirm and amend the agenda accordingly.

Knut asked what are the expectations for his presentation in Trieste. Jordi said that a brief introduction to ExPaNDS and then focus
on how we can work together. Rudolf suggested to focus on how to synch the coordination of both projects.
The next RDA meeting in Budapest will be relevant to this topic and how we work together (and other clusters).

Andy also asked wehther we have chair persons for the Annual Conference in Trieste and to introduce the speakers. We still have no
volunteers for this.

Andy explained that there is a section called FAIR data at *Partner site*  which is intended to show what practical actions 
each partner is doing towards FAIRness and wehre we are.

Juncheng requested if possible to have a meeting room booked for WP5 on Thursday all day for up to 10 people. Dario will look into
this and confirm whether this is possible.

Jordi inquired about the Executive Board agenda and Rudolf confirmed that this is OK, with the only pending item is confirming  the
approval method of the next chair.

**2. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**
* WP1 Management
    * Jordi reminded all WP leaders of the upcoming milestones and deliverables end of November (D1.3, MS2.1, MS3.1, MS3.2, D4.1, 
D5.1 and D6.2), to which Jean-Francoies replied that the date for D6.2 is wrong (due month 36, not month 12). Jordi will review the
target dates of all deliverables and milestones in the portal as this one from the proposal does not seem to be right. Andy explained
that MS2.1 will be ready, however further work will take place until the end of the year to enhance it. No one else raised concerns
to achieve the planned deliverables/milestones.

    * Jordi talked about issue [45](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/45) : we are missing raw data for the Internal Financial Report (STFC) and missing replies from Questionnaires (WP2,
WP4, WP6, WP8, ESRF, ILL, XFEL, ESS, CERIC and ELI). 

    * Jordi requested again support dealing with the issue [41](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41), as we do not have concrete KPIs to measure progress. Jordi
clarified that ideally we would select some KPIs (this is TO DO) and then track their values at 5 points in time (Just before PaNOSC,
each subsequent year of execution and project completion).

    * Then Jordi summarised the work done on the concrete collaboration between ExPaNDS and PaNOSC ([issue 46](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46))
      * PaNOSC and ExPaNDS work together within their WP2 (Data Policy) in order to establish FAIR best practices and practical guide about what to consider for FAIRness and how could it be implemented at photon and neutron sources. It was suggested that Brian Matthews (ExPaNDS could work with WP2 PaNOSC staff)
      * If either ExPaNDS or PaNOSC organise Jupyter Notebook workshops/conferences we should plan these events together, to ensure maximum participation and transfer of knowledge.
        *Andy then pointed out that this should be done not only with ExPaNDS but also with the other cluster projects. Hans pointed out that a
request for funding was turned down for further development in Jupyter because the impact wasn't clear, however this could help in the future.
      * ExPaNDS could use PaNOSC's e-learning platform for training
      * Representatives of ExPaNDS and PaNOSC could attend every single user meeting at each partner institute to raise awareness of PaNOSC. This could mean in practice representative(s) from the hosting partner + another person from the other project and easily would cover all our user communities. Sharing timetable of future user meetings is essential for this.
      * Update the stakeholders wiki page of PaNOSC in GitHub with contacts from ExPaNDS, so we have a place where to go to find the right contacts in relation with a work package or topic.
        *Andy asked whether mailing lists for ExPaNDS are active because he has not received anything and Knut explained that they are starting
so activity has been low in the past but that this is changing.
      * PaNOSC is happy to share deliverables and internal products from WP1 - Management with ExPaNDS (Internal Financial Report, KPIs, etc.)


* WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship
    * Andy reported work on the draft MS2.1 and a presentation from BESSY. Given that Brian Matthews (ExPaNDS) will not be able to
join in Trieste Andy asked about video conference facilities. Dario confirmed that at Elettra the rooms booked have microphones and
webcams.
* WP3 Data Catalog Services
    * Tobias was absent. Petra reported that the milestone due end of November is on track. A recruitment for the WP was confirmed.
    *Jordi asked who in ExPaNDS will be working with WP3, the answer was Helen A. who will be in Trieste.
* WP4 Data Analysis Services
    * Hans said that he will have the evaluation of the survery ready for end of November and that the deadline to answer is end of 
October. He also announced a joint session with WP3, WP4 and WP6 in Trieste Wednesday and Thursday. 
    * Hans also plans to talk with EGI about models.
    * Andy announced that they have a preferred candidate for WP4 (recruitment not 100% confirmed yet)
* WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory
    * Juncheng is working on the deliverable due end of November and a draft version for review will be available very soon.
Andy announced that they have a preferred candidate for WP5 (recruitment not 100% confirmed yet)
* WP6 EOSC Integration
    * Jean-Francois reported difficulties with the WP6 meeting attendance. EGI and Geant are working, but there is still a lack of attendance to the forthnighlty meetings for most of the RI partners. Even if people do not have yet the ressources to engage in the activities, regular attendance is important for the decision process.
    * He also reported that AAI is on track with the prototype and that the 6th (in Trieste) he will need a representative from each partner to talk about the topic as this will affect all institutes.
    * Regarding data transfer EGI made progress with CERIC and ELI too. Florian said that unfortunately the ELI representative for WP6 will only be available in Trieste 4th and 5th but not the 6th. Jean-Fran√ßois will meet the person and asked for a few slides that he could present the 6th.
* WP7 Sustainibility
    * Roberto was absent. Dario reported that he will share news by email on Friday. **(THIS WILL THEN BE ADDED HERE)**
* WP8 Staff training in data stewardship
    * Thomas was absent. Petra reported no news. Florian explained that two weeks ago there was a meeting and that other partners of
WP8 will be more involved from now on. The transfer of e-neutrons to ESS is also ongoing. Florian explained that it is important to
know who from each partner site will be working on WP8 as they will need to be trained on the e-learning platform in order to be
able to create content.
* WP9 Outreach & Communication
    * Nicoletta was absent. Dario reported that she is waiting for feedback for the PaNOSC development website and that during the
RDA meeting it was said that we should collaborate more with other cluster projects.
Andy said that Cluster projects met in September in Brussels and that was agreed to collaborate more but nothing happened. He is 
wondering whether all should collaborate or it is only PaNOSC not collaborating as we have not received any news form the other
cluster projects.

**3. Issues https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues**
* This was covered during WP1 - Management above.

**4. News from other proposals and events**
* FAIRsFAIR data repository certification
    * Andy said that we are awaiting feedback from FAIRsFAIR. 
* Invitation to cluster meeting @ RDA (12:00-16:00 on 21 October in Helsinki)
    * Andy said he received a one page summary from Ornela, but he is not so sure we can share its contents right now
    * It was also explained that there was criticism of the Stromer Report 
* The [EOSC Stakeholders meeting](https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/eosc-symposium) 24th to 28th November in Budapest
    * Knut will attend to represent ExPaNDS, however it is not clear at this stage who will represent PaNOSC. Andy or Jordi could be
possible candidates, however everyone is encouranged to volunteer to attend this meeting so we can better share the travel between
all partners.

**5. AOB**
* Andy asked everyone whether they have questions they would like to raise with the EB. Please email any desired question to 
Jordi and Andy by 29th October if you want these raised.
* Andy explained that he presented PaNOSC remotely to the [CNRS](http://www.cnrs.fr/en) and that they were positively impressed 
with what we are doing. 




