# 20190510 Panosc WP3 Monthly Teleconference

## Attendees

* Alex de Maria (ESRF)
* Maxime Hubert (ESRF)
* Alessandro Olivo (CERIC)
* Carlos Reis (CERIC)
* Emiliano Coghetto (CERIC) 
* Stuart Caunt (ILL)
* Tobias Richter (ESS)
* Gareth Murphy (ESS)
* Fredrik Bolmsten (ESS)
* Lajos Schrettner (ELI)
* Luis Maia (XFEL)

## Apologies:

* Armando Sole (ESRF)
* Krzysztof Wrona (XFEL)
* Sandor Brockhauser (XFEL)
* Jamie Hall (ILL)

	
## Agenda 

* Xfel contact  Luis Maia, Krzysztof Wrona <krzysztof.wrona@xfel.eu> + Sandor
    - They were not on the WP3 mailing list
* Test version of OAI-PMH provider added to GitHub
  - OAI-PMH supports Dublin Core and richer metadata formats
  - https://www.openarchives.org/OAI/2.0/guidelines-repository.htm#MinimalImplementation-DC
  - Provider includes a mapper to map from internal field names to OAI/DC
  - We could have one provider per institute so 7 in total in the shared repository
  - Can also add mongodb to the repository

* OpenAire - Re3data registration
  - In order to use OpenAire, we can register as data repositories
  - ILL is registered, ESS is in progress
  - https://www.re3data.org/suggest

* OAI-PMH potential replacement - Resourcesync 
  - OAI-PMH dates from 1999 and is used widely
  - Resourcesync is faster, more reliable
  - See resources at: http://www.openarchives.org/rs/toc
  - See slides at https://www.slideshare.net/OpenArchivesInitiative/resourcesync-tutorial

* AI: GM will Send ResourceSync info email to mailing list

* Kickoff meeting in Copenhagen 
	- Agenda at https://indico.esss.lu.se/event/1233/
	- agenda and participants
	- format will be presentations and discussions
	- register at https://indico.esss.lu.se/event/1233/
	- Discussion format 
	- Each participant will present opening slides

* Welcome Fredrik Bolmsten - Web Section at ESS


