PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 25/09/2019
=======================================================================

Present
-------
 Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Danielle (ESS), Hans (XFEL), Florial (ELI-DC), Juncheng (XFEL), Jamie (ILL), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC)
 and Dario (CERIC-ERIC)


Minutes
-------

Juncheng (XFEL) introduced himself. He is the new WP leader for WP5: Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory (VINYL) and is working
with Carsten (who remains 10% of his time attached to the project) and others on the simulation part of the project.

1. Issues https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
    * Concrete cooperation with ExPaNDS : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46
Jordi explained that following the ExPaNDS kick-off meeting where he worked with Knut and Patrick it was agreed that in order to
ensure good cooperation between the two projects we need to go further than just the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between the
two projects. The idea is to start working in order to be more concrete on what the two projects can achieve together and how the
work will be organised. It is not enough to say that two tasks are aligned. Concrete deliverables (or internal deliverables) should
be flagged up for being co-authored, or certain deliverables from one project used by the other or similar. Jordi will work on this
in the following weeks.
Rudolf asked what were the timescales for this action and Jordi replied that he would like to start work on the next two weeks and
to be able to present something for the Annual Conference in Trieste.

    * Internal milestones : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43
Jordi thanked everyone that contributed milestones and explained that the issue now links document with a graph showing the new
internal milestones. Jordi noted that WP7 did not provide any internal milestones yet and that some WPs provided milestones all
around nearer dates, but not covering the whole project.

    * KPIs : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41
Jordi thanked everyone that contributed to the KPIs, but noted that leaders of WP3, WP5, WP6 and WP7 have not contributed. Also
KPIs that are not WP-dependent but that show the overal progress in implementing FAIR would be good. Jordi would like to present
the KPIs in the Annual Meeting in Trieste, so we can agree on them and start measuring them for the remaining of the project.
Rudolf pointed out that it would be good to check with ExPaNDS if they use similar KPIs, as it sould be useful if both project
could measure our impact/performance in a similar way.

    * Financial control report : https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/45
Jordi thanked ESS, ELI and ILL for sharing this information and reminded XFEL, CERIC-ERIC and EGI that their data is still missing.
The agreed deadline to submit this data is at the end of the month, as otherwise it may prove difficult for Jordi to provide a 
report for the Annual Meeting in Trieste (the raw data provided will be published as well). Jordi reminded everyone that this report
is very useful as it will show where we are struggling to provide some effort and kick-off change requests for our project if 
required (e.g. we may want to realocate funds between partners, WPs, subcontract more, etc.). If we do not know whether we are
speding our grant or not it will not be possible to make changes to our plans.


2. Plenty of deliverables/milestones due end of November
Jordi reminded everyone that by end of November will be PaNOSC's first anniversary and that we have a few milestones and deliverables
due on the date. 
We have 4 milestones due end of November:
* MS1.2 First annual Workshop (WP1)
* MS2.1 First version of PaNOSC policy framework (WP2)
* MS3.2 Anthology Feedback to API tasks (WP3)
* MS3.1 Survey of Catalogue APIs & Roadmap to EOSC integration (WP3)

And also 4 deliverables due end of November:
* D1.3 Annual Workshop report (WP1) - this will be similar to the mid-year summary report
* D4.1 Report data analysis capture (WP4)
* D5.1 Prototype simulation data formats (WP5)
* D6.2 Computer cloud: integration of local compute resources (WP6)

Jordi explained that we have a policy in place to review all deliverables by someone that was not the main editor before submitting
them, however if we receive all deliverables in the last week of November that won't be possible, therefore it would be great if
draft deliverables would be shared for review well in advance. 

Jordi asked to all WP leaders concerned if they have any issue that makes them think they won't be on time for the milestones 
or deliverables and everyone replied that they are on time.
Rudolf then asked whether anyone was *ahead of schedule* to which only Juncheng could reply that he is working with Carsten in 
the WP5 deliverable and that a first draft will be made available end of October.

The other issues were not considered a priority, so we moved out to the next item in the agenda.

3. News from other proposals and events

Jordi explained that several of the attendees attended the ExPaNDS kick-off meeting in DESY (Hamburg) and that it was organised a 
little bit like our kick-off meeting (sessions by WP leaders explaining their project and plans followed by break-out work sessions).
Hans explained that ExPaNDS will follow PaNOSC, therefore we are a bit ahead of them. He also pointed out the good ambiance and
willingness to work together.
Rudolf highlighted that the readiness to collaborate needs concretion in order to materialise. He also said that to manage that 
project (with more partners than PaNOSC) will be difficult and so will be the interaction between all of us and them. He also said
that *we need to ensure that what PaNOSC delivers is useful to our facilities* and aligned to the proposal.

Jordi also explained that Andy is submitting a paper about PaNOSC for ICALEPS and has asked everyone to help him by contributing.
The paper is available on overleaf and several of us (e.g. Hans and Jordi) have already contributed. The paper must be submitted
before the end of next week, so it is important that we all contribute to this as soon as possible.

Jordi also explained that Andy is today at the EOSC-hub SB meeting on 26 September in Brussels and [EOSC-hub Briefing paper](https://www.eosc-hub.eu/sites/default/files/EOSC-hub%20Briefing%20Paper%20-%20EOSC%20Federating%20Core%20Governance%20and%20Sustainability%20Public_0.pdf)

4. Annual conference in Trieste - update 
Dario explained that the indico page for the event is now available: https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/ and that it now 
includes some extra information/documents:
* Draft agenda 4th and 5th November -> https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/timetable/#20191104.detailed
* Registration form (**Registrations will close 15/10/2019**) -> https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/registration/register#/register
* Travel + accommodation advice -> https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/material/1/
* Agenda for WP meetings 6th and 7th November -> https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/36/material/2/

Dario also explained that there will be dinner offered on Monday 4th November.
Rudolf asked how many people have registered so far and Dario replied that about 30 people (out of 100 expected attendees).
Rudolf also asked whether the people we invited are coming. Dario replied that invitations were sent and some replies declining
attendance have been received, but mostly we didn't obtain a reply.
Juncheng asked whether he could invite someone (**who?**) and Rudolf said YES. Rudolf also said that we need to chase up a bit
the people we want to attend to ensure they are coming and register before the deadline (15th October).
We have a table in Google docs (link and access available upon request to Dario/Jordi) listing all the possible attendees. 
We should track who has replied, who has registered and who is in the best position to chase up the ones not replying. A joint 
effort on this area should ensure that we get enough attendees.
Jordi also asked that WP leaders share the event and registration deadline in their WP mailing list, to ensure that staff from
ExPaNDS and other observes following us are informed of the event and can register.
Jordi asked whether there is an agenda for the Executive Board meeting during the Annual Conference and Rudolf replied that this is
not ready yet.

5. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems

**WP1 Management**: Jordi reported attendance to ExPaNDS kick-off meeting and work on 
* carry on organising the bi-weekly meetings and reminding everyone of upcoming deliverables/milestones
* concrete cooperation with ExPaNDS (the target is to present outcome of this excercise during our Annual Conference)
* KPIs : more information is needed from some WP leaders (the target is again to present during the Annual Conference)
* Financial report: information from some partners still missing (target is to present during the Annual Conference)
* Internal milestones: [document available](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Plans/PANOSC%20Tasks%2C%20Deliverables%20and%20Milestones.docx) 
Jordi also explained that Risk Management is not a top priority at the moment, however he wanted to note to everyone that it is 
something we must do and that the excercise about managing risks is showing no progress.
Rudolf noted this, as it is likely to be an item in the Executive Board meeting during the Annual Conference.

**WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship**: Andy was absent. Jordi reported that Andy met today (25/09/2019) our Project Officer (PO). Andy 
discovered that René worked on ID11 twenty years ago and that he understands synchrotron + neutron world well. This should be to
our advantage as he will be albe to help us more to achieve our objectives. Rudolf pointed out that he is also PO for a EU-funded
project for the ESRF called Streamline and wondered who is the PO for ExPaNDS. Jordi will ask Knut/Patrick and confirm this.
Jordi also explained that Andy is waiting for feedback on lessons learned by ILL (EuXFEL and ELI provided input last week - thanks!)

**WP3 Data Catalog Services**: Tobias was absent. Petra was absent too but she had shared some notes: Financial report was shared
with Jordi, WP3 is working on some more internal milestones.

**WP4 Data Analysis Services**: Hans explained that teh questionnaire is out, the ExPaNDS meeting was usueful and he is working
on the portal architecture. WP5 wants to focus on datasets for which apps exists. He also helped with the paper for ICALEPS and
organising a Jupyter conference. A joint ExPaNDS-PaNOSC WP4 meeting in Humburg is also being planned for next year.

**WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory**: Juncheng reported work in three different areas:
1. D5.1 drafting simulation data standard and working on molecular dinamics simulations. People on ESS are working on neutron 
ray-tracing. He expects a draft to be completed end of October
2. Collaboration for open PMP? ongoing  **I dind't catch this acronym, sorry, can someone correct it please?**
3. Contacts with WP4 to do something together asthere are similarities (e.g. compare simulation with real experiment data)
The attendees also briefly discussed that there should be some form of collaboration between WP8 and WP5, as training should be
offered on the simulation software/services.

**WP6 EOSC Integration**: Jean-Francois was absent. Jamie reported athat AAI has been taken up by Géant, a site is ste up and that
there will be a pilot at the end of this week. Rudolf said that this was great news and a very good progress. **Couldn't hear 
Jamie very well, can you please EXPAND THIS please?** 
Jamie posted the minutes of a meeting in Confluence and Jordi asked him to add a link in GitHub towards that information.

**WP7 Sustainibility**: Roberto was absent. Dario said a meeting took place in the morning during which Roberto showed proposal for
cost estimates and discussed it. It was agreed that the WP will create a list of activities related to sustainability (thus 
clarifying the scope of what is to be covered in this area) so then we can get the real cost. Next meeting will be in two weeks.
Regarding the stakeholder list, we should interact more with the members listed.
Jordi also reminded that internal milestones and KPIs for WP7 have not been provided.

**WP8 Staff training in data stewardship**: Thomas swas absent. Petra was absent too but she shared some notes: KPIs for WP8 have
been distributed and the internal milestones too. Minutes are on GitHub for WP8 meetings.

**WP9 Outreach & Communication**: Nicoletta was absent and Dario reported video interviews published.

6. Job openings

ILL failed in a recruitment. The ESRF will interview 3 candidates soon for 2 PaNOSC Web Developer positions

The meeting finished with a reminder that **THE DEADLINE TO REGISTER FOR THE ANNUAL CONFERENCE IN TRIESTE 4th and 5th NOVEMBER IS
15th OCTOBER**




