PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 31/07/2019
=======================================================================

Present
-------

Jordi (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Thomas (ESS), Florian (ELI-DC), Jonathan (ESS)


Minutes
-------

1. **PaNOSC rollups**

Nicoletta explained whath the rollups are: They are vertical posters that can be rolled up. The idea is that they stand near
a speaker or desk, so they identify the person with the project. Also they are useful so the logo of the project can be seen
in pictures/vidieos. Nicoletta explained that 3 rollup proposals have been shared and that feedback would be very welcome.
The rollups will be printed in September (so they are available for the Trieste meeting) and they cost around 70€ to 100€ each.
Nicoletta asked whether any other partner wanted to have rollups and also that if any other promotional material is required we 
should let her kwow.

2. **Annual Meeting in Trieste**

Nicoletta explained that there are no news, as Dario is not back until mid-August. Nicoletta also said that it is still not clear
whether time and meeting rooms in Elettra will be required for the WP parallel sessions. Jean-Francois asked by when the requirement
needs to be formalised and Nicoletta answered that while she is not 100% sure a reply early September would be good.
    
3. **News from other proposals and events**
    * Request from FAIRsFAIR for communities to contact
    
      Thomas explained that he asked internally, but due to holidays he couldn't obtain an answer. Nicoletta then pointed out that
Angus asked for an answer by today (for 31st July 2019) and it was agreed that Thomas will email Angus and CC Nicoletta about this
topic. Jean-Francois said that it is difficult to get people now due to the holiday period and that it could be better to provide
the information in September (if not too late)

    * FAIRsFAIR data repository certification
    
      Jonathan said that he thinks that they have already identified the repositories they want to work with and that this may not
be releveant to us, to which Nicoletta replied that they have asked PaNOSC specifically, so she thinks that they are still looking
for repositories. Jonathan then explained that their definition of repository could mean that we do not have any and Jean-Francois
said that this is something he is interested in, however it is again a request made during the summer months with a deadline within
summer which makes it very difficult to reply to. Jean-Francois will reply saying that we could engage in September, but right now
in the holiday period he cannot commit in name of his colleagues at ILL.

    * Invitation to a joint EOSC project meeting on 9-10 September 2019 in Brussels
    
      Thomas clarified that due to a meeting that week, he won't be able to attend any meeting that week (including ExPaNDS kick-off)
Jonathan said that ESS could send someone and Jean-Francois explained that attendance is restricted to two per project. It was
therefore decided that Jean-Francois will join Andrew Gotz for this meeting in Brussels and represent PaNOSC.

    * ExPANDs kick-off meeting 11-12 September in Hamburg
    
      Jonathan explained  that ESS will send someone and Thomas added that due to the ESS meeting neither him or Tobias will be able
to make it. Jean-Francois said that he will be there and Jordi signalled his intention to go.
Nicoletta asked how we will contribute to the meeting? This is not clear and Jordi will send an email to Knut. Jean-Francois said
that in the agenda there is a 20min slot about ExPANDs-PaNOSC (probably a presentation by Andy will be done there) but not much more.
Jean-Francois also asked wether ISIS will send someone and Thomas said that he thinks so.


4. **Update from WP Leaders**
    * WP1 Management: Jordi reported that he notified the management mailing list about the financial report due and the WP leaders
    about the internal milestones required. The mix of these two sources of information will provide useful input in order to 
    coordinate and manage the project.
    
    * WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship: Andy was absent. Jonahtahn said that Policy still being discussed and needs to talk with Andy.
    
    * WP3 Data Catalog Services: Tobias was absent. Jean-Francois said that there will be a face-to-face meeting at the ILL for 
    this WP 18th and 19th September. More information available on this link: https://workshops.ill.fr/event/2018/
    
    * WP4 Data Analysis Services: Hans was absent. No news.
    
    * WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory: Carsten was absent. Thomas reported that minutes of the last meetinig are available
    on GitHub and that XFEL recruited someone to continue the development of SEMEX
    
    * WP6 EOSC Integration: Jean-Francois reported that someone from ELI joined the WP and will work on the user data transfer use
    case. Also, options for the Jupyter Notebox from EGI use case will be tested by ILL and CERIC-ERIC in September. Jean-Francois
    could also report on the result on the AAI vote, which will be reviewed by Miriam (legal team) before it is made official.
    
    * WP7 Sustainability: Roberto was absent. No news.
    
    * WP8 Staff training in data stewardship: Thomas reported no news and no recent activity.
    
    * WP9 Outreach and Communication: Nicoletta reported that she will provide internal milestones soon. Also she is seeking help
    for the development section of the website and how to report the use cases. Would be better a very technical text or some 
    interviews with users which will be lighter to read? Jordi said that he thinks interviews could be better, with links towards
    the "heavy and more technical" content in GitHub. Nicoletta also asked about scientists to be interviewed for the EOSC secretariat
    video. Jonathan explained that he will catch up with Elenka for a short video of up to 3min. Nicoletta said that he needs that 
    by 12th of August. Nicoletta also talked about the [EOSC Strategic Implementation Plan](https://publications.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/78ae5276-ae8e-11e9-9d01-01aa75ed71a1) document.

**We were running out of time**, however Jordi explained that there are some issues open in GitHub and that there is the one about
KPIs [issue #41](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) that requires help from everybody to fill in possible KPIs in the 
google doc.
