PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 10/06/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Petra (ESS), Roberto (CERIC), Dario (CERIC), Florian (ELI), Jon (ESS) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Pending milestone**

Jordi reminded everyone of the milestone that is pending (and overdue) which is related to getting some services in the EOSC. Jordi explained that it is important to mark the milestone as achieved once we have reached what we meant when submitting the proposal with that milestone.

Jean-François reported that the suggestion from Andy related to EGI services was not clear, as he did not obtain an answer yet. Jean-François explained that for him, having some services registered in the EOSC even if these were developed pre-PaNOSC it is important as long as these services are PaNOSC related, and the Service Catalogue and pan-learning.org fit in this description. He added that later on more services that will come from WP3, WP4, WP5... will be added.

Hans explained that Jupyter services could be added, but without the underlying data are not useful and together with Tobias they said that it should be possible to move to the computation where the data is in a transparent manner for the user.

Andy said that we must set up an internal milestone for the first PaNOSC-developed services being registered in the EOSC if we accept the registering of the two services that Jean-François advocates.

No one disagreed from Jean-François proposal and adding an internal milestone, therefore Jean-François will register these two services, inform Jordi with a short description and Jordi will then mark the milestone as achieved.

**2. Rehearsal feedback**

Tobias presented his [Draft Presentation WP3](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qvOOVuxCfUs54vuNIZ6aU90nSGncc_WI/view?usp=sharing) and gathered some feedback from the attendees in the same way that all other attendees of the Review Meeting gathered and provided some feedback during the Rehearsal that took place Friday 5th June.

Jordi reminded everyone that for the review meeting he needs some missing information about risks (related to WP3, WP5 and WP6) and asked the involved WP leaders to contact him with the information.

Jordi also reminded that he will mention KPIs in his presentation, so asked everyone to be ready to provide this information if requested by the PO or Reviewer during the meeting.

**3. Financial information**

Jordi showed the information provided by ESS, that shows an increase in the spending, with the percentage of forecast expenditure increasing compared with M9, however this was not enough to prevent a widening gap between actual and forecast spending.

Jordi explained that if most WPs have similar issues this would mean a big under-spending for PaNOSC as a whole.

Petra added that ESS is aware of the issue and planning already further hiring in order to bring spending levels back to where they should be.

ILL and ELI said that they will be sharing information tomorrow, however CERIC, ESRF and EGI are not expected to provide further information.

**4. EGI conference - PaN session with ExPaNDS**

Andy reported that he didn't obtain any feedback on the email he sent for this item.

**5. Coming back to bi-weekly PMC meetings**

Jordi explained that he is planning a PMC meeting for next week (17/06/2020), in order to debrief following the Review Meeting, with bi-weekly meetings afterwards (01/07/2020 and 15/07/2020)















