PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 14/08/2019
=======================================================================

Present
-------
Knut (ExPaNDS), Jon (ESS), Petra (ESS), Andy (ESRF)


Minutes
-------

* Rollups - briefly discussed that Nicoletta is still waiting for feedback. Tobias has requested that the logos of all the PaNOSC partners are added. Andy said he found the text too brief and no reference to photons and neutrons. 

* Videos - the EOSC testimonial videos for ESS, CERIC and ESRF user are now available at this link - https://drive.ceric-eric.eu/d/1c9c3a0e9c9d454a952c/. Nicoletta is still waiting for Andy's video. 

ACTION - Andy to conduct EOSC testimonial video and send it to the EOSC secratariat + Nicoletta

* Annual General Meeting - Andy has updated the list of invitees. Unfortunately no other sites have updated or added their list of invitees. 

**TODO : ALL WP leaders to UPDATE the list of invitees with people to invite to the Annual Meeting on the googlesheet**:

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Cz1KfP6-5NcKJzAUuoJkcBs3Sp35Mz5eVV4CoIS1pQw/edit?usp=sharing

* Annual General Meeting - CERIC-ERIC has scheduled a video conference with the ESRF to discuss the organisation of the AGM and setup the indico site. 

* News from other proposals and events
    * FAIRsFAIR data repository certification - Andy proposed that ESRF applies for data repository certification in order to learn from the process. Other possible candidates are ILL.

    * Invitation to a joint EOSC project meeting on 9-10 September 2019 in Brussels - Andy explained that the EC has requested we participate in a 2 day meeting to work on the objectives and development of the EOSC. We have to make a short presentation of the status of PaNOSC and provide input to the other EOSC projects. TO be discussed at next PMC.

    * ExPANDs kick-off meeting 11-12 September in Hamburg - Knut presented the ExPaNDS kick-off. One presentation by Andy on PaNOSC and the links to ExPaNDS is foreseen. 

	* ExPaNDS interaction with PaNOSC Work Packages - The other WP leaders are requested to participate in the working group parallel meetings. WP5 and WP6 should participate in the same WG as WP4. WP7 has no equivalent in ExPaNDS. 

    *Q: will someone from WP7 attend the ExPaNDS kickoff?*

	* [EOSC Strategic Implementation Plan](https://publications.europa.eu/en/publication-detail/-/publication/78ae5276-ae8e-11e9-9d01-01aa75ed71a1) document - Andy recommends all PaNOSC WP leaders to read this. It is a good summary of the EOSC landscape and projects.

	* EOSC-hub SB meeting on 26 September in Brussels and [EOSC-hub Briefing paper](https://www.eosc-hub.eu/sites/default/files/EOSC-hub%20Briefing%20Paper%20-%20EOSC%20Federating%20Core%20Governance%20and%20Sustainability%20Public_0.pdf) - Andy recommends all WP leaders to read this too. It is a concrete proposal on what the EOSC Federating Core will/could be. It will be discussed with the other cluster projects at a meeting in Brussels.

* WP updates - no major news due to the summer break except everyone is requested to prepare the financial report and forward it to Jordi (issue missing - Jordi please create one)

* Issues - all WP leaders are reminded to provide intermediate milestones and KPIs to Jordi by the end of the month.
