PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 12/12/2018
========================================================

Present
------

Dario (CERIC), Hans (EuXFEL), Carsten (EuXFEL), Jean-Francois (ILL), Petra (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Florian (ELI-DC), 
Lajos (ELI-ALPS), Giuseppe (EGI), Manolo (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Axel (ESRF), Andy (ESRF)

Minutes
------
1. **PMC meeting role**

    The role of the PMC was presented and who should attend. 
    
    Andy reminded all that the PMC is the weekly management meeting to manage the PaNOSC project and ensure the smooth running.
    He reminded all the the PMC members and WP leaders should attend. In case they cannot attend they should inform the Project
    Manager (Jordi) of their absence before the meeting. Other members of the project are welcome to attend to share progress
    of their tasks and to stay informed.
  
2. **New EC Project Officer**

    Andy informed that we have a new Project Officer for PaNOSC - *Geert Vancraeynest*
  
    He has been invited to the Kick-off meeting. We hope to meet him then.
  
3. **Consortium Agreement feedback**

    Andy asked if all legal officers have a copy of the Consortium Agreement (CA) and requested them to respect the deadline
    for giving feedback by the 21/12. We would like to sign the CA before the Kick-off meeting.
    
    EGI confirmed after the meeting that they are ready to sign the CA.
    
    XFEL asked if the Open Source licence for software developed and financed by PaNOSC applies to software developed 
    as an extension of software which is not Open Source. Andy said a priori not, PaNOSC does not want to impose
    a licence on existing software.
    
    ILL could not give a date on when they could give feedback

4. **Update from the WP Leaders**

*    **WP1 Management** - Andy reported that the management WP is keeping him and Jordi busy 50 to 100 %
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy reported that the presentation for the LaserLab meeting was mainly about data policy and FAIR data. The meeting allowed him to update presentation on these topics. Andy reported HZDR are using Invenio for their data catalogue.
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent (travel). Petra reported that he is busy hiring someone for WP3.
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported that XFEL is hiring. ESRF and ILL are also hiring for WP4.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Carsten reported he is working through the proposal again to identify all the tasks for the first 6 months. He has no news about a replacement. Manolo reported that ESRF is hiring someone for WP5 (interviews tomorrow). ESS has hired a McStas specialist for WP6.
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois reported that he has had discussions with EOSC-hub (Tiziana) and she will present details of the EOSC-hub at the Kickoff.
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - Roby was absent.
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas reported that ESS has working on a contract for the e-learning platform specialist and should not be a problem.
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta was absent.Andy reported that she has sent a draft of the press release to the communication officers.

5. **Kick-off meeting agenda**

    Review of https://indico.esrf.fr/indico/event/19/timetable/#all.detailed
    
    **PLEASE REGISTER THIS WEEK to help the organisers know how many people are coming**
    
    It was agreed to extend the 2nd day until 17:00 (1 hour more) and use the extra time to have a longer plenary session 
    on the morning of the 2nd day (16/1) for general talks on Jupyter and EOSC-hub. The Kickoff timetable has been updated.

6. **Review of existing issues**: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through. No new issues were closed. Andy noted that he would like input on EOSC-hub questions [issue 21](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/21).
    Hans suggested we work through the questions at the Kickoff (which is one week before the deadline).
    
7. **News from other proposals and events**

    Jean-Francois reported that he has registered for a meeting organised by ESFRI for the INFRAEOSC-04 which will take place 
    in London on the 30/1. More info at this url:
    
    https://www.esfri.eu/esfri-events/esfri-ris-eosc-liaison-workshop

8. **AOB**

    Thomas requested that Andy send invitations for observers (all who sent support letters). Andy asked him to add the missing sites to the wiki page.
    
    Andy reported IUCR is preparing a session on *Data Science skills in publishing* in summer 2019 which could be interesting for WP8.
    
