PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 29/04/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario(CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS), Ornela(CERIC), Rudolf (ESRF) and Florian (ELI)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

Summary table of upcoming deliverables:
| Deliverable | New date | Original Date | 
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | 
| D1.5 Mid-year Summary | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D3.1 API definition | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service | **mid-May** | *May 2020* |  
| D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks | **early May** | *May 2020* | 



* **WP1 - Management** : Jordi reported attending the workshop by the EOSC Landscape Working Group which focused on validating a report they have produced. Jordi explained that the report is long and detailed and the workshop was useful to the organisers (they obtained feedback from attendees via zoom + sli.do), but not so interesting for PaNOSC.

Jordi also explained that he requires support from WP leaders and someone that attends the Executive Board meetings in order to complete deliverable D1.5 Mid-Year Summary Report ([link to contribute](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X96DtpDITHmHwcHVNgRrcMSOZyjwb9C2/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs)). Jordi clarified to Hans that this is a WP1 deliverable that focuses on what has been going on during the last 6 months (roughly what happened since the Annual Conference in Trieste).

Jordi also explained that the [Mid-term Report is available online](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit#bookmark=id.gjdgxs), and we need everyone to contribute too as we need to show an advanced draft of the technical part during our review meeting.

Jordi also asked all WP leaders to provide new values for hte KPIs. We have collected the 1st set of values for each WP (except WP8) and now is the right moment to provide a second set of values, so we can show progress during the review meeting. [The file to contribute the information is available through this link](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iivsvBrix4v6lmC2U3sOC6YEXFeY0JzXHTM9QQQZwiY/edit#gid=0)

Jordi also reminded everyone that we should review the risks as part of the Mid-term report, and [the file is available here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1gfh0SI8IvM61URcpv2_0FSs3QcOBOXKH/edit#gid=1755662956)

* **WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship** : Andy reported reaching an important milestone, with the Data Policy Framework finishing and being checked against the [FAIR Maturity document from RDA](https://www.rd-alliance.org/system/files/FAIR%20Data%20Maturity%20Model_%20specification%20and%20guidelines_v0.90.pdf).

Andy explained that the deliverable should be ready by mid-May.

Rudolf asked whether the deliverable would have a chapter comparing this DP against the PanData DP and Andy and him will look into whether that is possible.

* **WP3 - Data Catalog Services** : Tobias reported ongoing work on D3.1 API definition. Also work is ongoing on how the definition could be implemented. 

Tobias said that he is confident the deadline for the deliverable will be met, however he is worried about a possible duplication of efforts at ExPaNDS, with a meeting organised to ensure that there are not two parallel developments for the API.

* **WP4 Data Analysis Services** : Hans reported work on *D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service*.

Andy explained that h5web.panosc.eu and hsds.panosc.eu are available and that it is possible to put external links under the panosc.eu domain name.

* **WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** : Juncheng was absent, no news.

* **WP6 - EOSC Integration** : Jean-François reported work on the deliverable due end of May and working on a pilot to transfer data (using OneData) from CERIC to Cesnet, however there are problems with the benchmark due to a firewall issue. Jean-François explained that the set-up is working, but he really would like to have some figures for the deliverable report.

Jean-François also explained that there is work ongoing on the transfer of data archive from teh ILL to UKRI, but the destination is object storage, so he is looking at a CERN solution.

Jean-François also explaiend that two meetings related to AAI took place, one concerning WP8 (to use UmbrellaId for the learning platform) and the other about eduTeams proxy at PSI.

Jean-François and Andy then talked about EGI resources being consumed and a report that has been provided by EGI.

Last, Jean-François reported that he is leaving the ILL to join the ESRF in July 2020. He is not so sure what will happen at the ILL after that.

* **WP7 - Sustainibility** : Ornela reported that *D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks* is just undergoing a final revision and comments and that it will be completed and ready to be submitted very soon.

WP7 is now moving towards the following tasks, collecting costs and defining a clear scope, so data is collected in the same way and comparable.

* **WP8 - Staff training in data stewardship** : Thomas was absent. Florian reported on the outcomes of the latest WP8 meeting, held with participation of ExPaNDS. He indicated that ELI should be able to help implement the solution for the Jupyter integrated. He is also confident colleagues from ELI Beamlines involved in WP4 will be available to contribute to the work on the front-end of the learning platform. He announced that he will be in touch with ExPaNDS and PaNOSC coordinators to organise a joint meeting aiming at discussing and aligning views on the overall scope and ambition of the learning platform and the strategy moving forward.

Florian also explained Thomas has engaged with two people to lead the workshops to teach how to use the training platform. Further discussions are anticipated in the coming week with them to discuss the format of the workshops. Jordi asked whether the *internal milestone* about having a first facility specific course integrated was accomplished and Florian answered that he will check this with Thomas.

Rudolf explained that training is discussed in INFRAEOSC-03 and that he would like to get in touch with Thomas and Florian to discuss it. Andy supported the possibility of running the learning platform on EOSC, which would make it sustainable, to which Florian pointed out that we will need asl well people that will keep creating content and running training courses.

* **WP9 - Outreach & Communication** : Nicoletta reported progress on the DOI video, which entered into production. 

Nicoletta has also done an interview with a scientist at CERIC for open data / COVID-19.

A meeting for EOSC cluster projects communication officers took place and Nicoletta will share the minutes once these are available.

Nicoletta and Rudolf then discussed that it would be very interesting to identify cross-cluster and cluster-specific use cases as we do not have anything yet for dissemination in this area.


**4. AOB**

Ornela enquired about what to do regarding the feedback for the Rules of Participation document and it was agreed that we would put something together and submit it as PaNOSC feedback.

Andy reported that a summary from the feedback received by the Tinman report on sustainability is now published, however tough comments/criticism have been removed.

Ornela explained that it looks like the legal entitity in Belgium (AISBL) will be created and Rudolf finished the meeting by explaining that INFRAEOSC-03 and 07 calls may get delayed (deadlines may slip to September).


















