The conference call took place on 12/11/2018 and the following actions were agreed/ discussed:

1. Reminder of the issue list
    #4 We need a full list of Executive Committee members
    #5 Stakeholder list to change from Excel file to markdown table in GitHub wiki for the project. Everyone to collaborate and fill in their contacts
    #6 Kick-off planning meeting: Margarett Armstrong (ESS) said Consortium agreement must be signed by legal representatives of the partners, so the planned "Ceremonial signing" of the CA during the kick-off meeting will need to change shape. In any case it was mostly a PR excersise.
    #9 New issue to be created this week: Observer status. What does it mean? Candidates? How to engage with them?
    #10 New issue to be created this week: Data storage needs for 2019? J.F. Perrin (ILL) suggested 1 PetaByte

2. PaNOSC letter of support for ExPaNDS: Suggestion to change wording for "unqualified support", as it is not clear

3. Job announcements: we updated on progress, it would be good to share all PaNOSC related job openings in GitHub.

4. Andy/Jordi (ESRF) to share with Nicoleta (CERIC-ERIC) a half-baked poster ideas/content, so it can be refined

5. A doodle will be published to find out if a different date/time slot for the videoconference meetings is possible.

