#+TITLE: WP4 Video meeting <2020-04-21 Tue 15:00>

* Actions from last meeting
- Jamie/ILL: provide input to Lottie for D4.2 report
- ILL, ESS, CERIC-ERIC to reply to Robert's survey on Slurm
- Axel: prepare hdf5-tool demo
- Hans & Andy: review suggestions for presentations (see item below)
- People potentially interested to support the coronavirus plots, please get in touch 
  updated webpage: http://oscovida.github.io/

* Container orchestration workshop (Robert)
- planned for Wednesday 22nd April, 9:30 - 16:30 (CEST)
- Draft programme

  - 9:30 - 11:00 AAI 
  - 11:00 - 12:30 Openstack (VMs) 
  - 13:30 - 15:30 Kubernetes (Clusters) 
  - 15:00 - 16:30 PaNOSC Portal deployment (Deployments)

- Details will be added to this indico page soon:
  https://indico.desy.de/indico/event/25925/
* Report on Deliverable 4.2 (Lottie)

* Review meeting (Hans)
- Draft plan for WP4 presentations, see https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-06-review-meeting/session-wp4.rst

* Update from HDF5 at ESRF (Axel)

* Next meeting

5 May 2020, 15:00

* Any other business

