PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 19/06/2019
========================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Florian (ELI-DC), Robert (Eu-XFEL)

Minutes
-------

1. Stakeholder database
* Roberto presented WP 7 (person months, tasks and deliverable). The presentation is available here: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Supporting%20material. He said that the major activity of the next months will be the stakeholders’ questionnaire and the update of the stakeholders’ database. With this regards, he specified that the stakeholder database will be updated by adding the “contact point” of each stakeholder. This deliverable, D 7.1 - Photon and Neutron EOSC Stakeholder Feedback will be delivered in M18, May 2020. The due date of D 7.2 - Photon and Neutron EOSC metrics and costs model is M36, November 2021 but Roberto said that he would like to have a first draft as soon as we can make it. With this regard, Andy suggested to assign to WP 7, as well as for the other WPs, internal milestones in order to better follow the implementing of the actions. 
3. Costs analysis: An example of beam time costs calculation
* Roberto suggested to start with an example of calculation of the beamtime costs in Elettra. Then we can start thinking about which costs we want to include n our model (D 7.2). We will circulate a doodle for 1-hour presentation leaded by Roberto on this topic.  Jean-Francois suggested to include in our model only the costs of F.A.I.R. 
2. PUMA, ILL presentation
* Jean-Francois presented PUMA and some of the useful information that you can get out from this software. The presentation is available here: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Supporting%20material/2019-06%20Puma%20Presentation%20FILL2030.pdf .
He highlighted that if any partner decides to use it, the calibration of this tool will not be a fast process (he estimated more or less 1 year per facility). 
4. Possibility of face to face meeting
* With this regard, Andy said that we will meet face to face in October 2019 during the annual meeting but he suggested to set up a periodical telco. Roberto will circulate a doodle in order to find the best solution. 
5. AOB
* Nothing to report. 


