AGENDA:

Dear all,

Just a reminder for tomorrow's videoconference at 14:00h through Vydeo: https://esrf.vidyocloud.com/join/q0zkRjp3zk
The draft agenda is:

    European Commission news
    Upcoming deliverables
    Update on Kick-off meeting (issue #6)
    Update on appointments for EC and PMC (issue #4)
    Other Issues
        Draft Consortium Agreement (#16)
        WP5 leader (#15)
        Observers (#9)
    Any other business

 Thanks,

Jordi Bodera
Project Coordinator

>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>

NOTES:
Attendees (please correct/complete the list):
Margaret Armstrong (ESS)
Petra Aulin(ESS)
Andy Gotz (ESRF)
Axel Kaprolat (ESRF)
Jordi Bodera (ESRF)
Carsten Grote (XFEL)
Nicoletta Carboni(CERIC)
Dario Roccella (CERIC)
Tamas Gaizer(ELI-ALPS)
Lajos Schrettner (ELI-ALPS)
Manolo Sanchez del Rio (ESRF)
Thomas Holm Rod (ESS)
Jamie Hall (ILL)
Jean Francois Perrin (ILL)
Florian  Gliksohn (ILL)
Hans Fangohr (XFEL)

1. Andy Gotz updated on Darko no longer being our Project Officer. We still do not know who will be the replacement.

2. Jordi talked about the upcoming deliverables. As we started one month earlier than planned, we have a deliverable coming up in January (this deliverable is the Project Initiation Documentation) in WP1 that Jordi will be working on. 
Another deliverable is the PaNOSC repository for internal communication (month 3 - end of February) which will be done within WP9. It was agreed that while GitHub is good, we may want to have a different system for binary documents. GitHub is currently open to everyone, so confidential documents may need a different place.
It was confirmed that deliverables are due the last day of the month

3. For the kick-off meeting we highlighted that we need registrations before 21st December (14 people so far registered). 30 people are required in order to have the guest house open and we need this information as soon as possible. 
The kick-off meeting will take place 15th and 16th January in Grenoble.

4. We talked about the renamed Executive Board (formerly Executive Committee) and Project Management Committee, which are still missing ILL names. Letters requesting a formal nomination for PaNOSC Executive Board have been sent to the partner's institutes top management.

5. A Draft Consortium Agreement was shared with the nominated PMC members and WP leaders. This needs to be reviewed and agreed with the legal teams of each partner. Feedback is expected before 21st December.
It was noted that it would be good to add a clause to the document saying that the CA retroactively applies to 1st December. Andy will talk with Renata (ESRF's legal officer) about this.

6. The WP 5 leader (Carsten Grote) is leaving his post at XFEL at the end of February. Manolo has offered to be an interim WP Leader until the end of June when he goes in a sabatical. Hans Fangohr and Carsten Grote to keep the PMC informed about any development in XFEL about a replacement (and a replacement date).

7. Letters have been sent to different institutes asking them to nominate observers for PaNOSC: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/wiki/PaNOSC-Observers
Some of them agreed to be observers and we expect some of them to attend the Kick-off meeting.
The template used to invite observers has been requested and will be shared.

8. The issue about website requirements https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/1 is now done and has been closed. CERIC-ERIC will start the process to find a supplier very soon and we expect no issue in having it ready for month 6 (end of May 2019) as per deliverable D9.2

9. In any other business we talked about:
    Adding an update from WP leaders in the PMC meetings agenda -> the attendees fully agreed with this
    Adding links in the agenda to the issues in GitHub -> the attendees fully agreed
    A new issue will be created for a Press Release. Nicoletta is already working on this
    We will try to be more formal with the agenda and summary of the meetings, as these will be part of the D1.2 Mid-Year summary deliverable


