PaNOSC Extraordinary Project Management Committee meeting - 26/06/2019
=======================================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Petra (ESS), Knut (ExPANDs), Thomas (ESS),


Minutes
-------

1. **Dates for the Annual Conference**

The meeting started with a question from Rudolf to Dario regarding the possibility to change the dates with the venue. 
Dario replied that the venue could accommodate us 4th and 5th of November (and possibly at later dates too), but that this would
need confirmation. Dario then asked about the WP meetings to follow the annual conference, which would take place at Elettra, not 
the venue. There was broad agreement on these discussions/extra two days at Elettra are secondary, being the two days at the venue
the main event.

**ACTION** : Dario will propose some dates to the Management mailing list with the aim to chose new dates as soon as possible

2. **Draft agenda for Annual Conference**

The attendees looked at thee two proposed agendas. Both have the same content for the 1st day (starting at 14:00h) and slight changes 
for the 2nd day.
Rudolf proposed a very reduced WPs report (maybe 10min per WP), so overall we spend less time on WP report and more on the things that
we can only do when we are together (e.g. talking about and with the EOSC, other cluster projects)
Andy agreed, saying that internal reporting can be done via reports and that face-to-face time should be spend getting exposure to 
the people usually we do not have the chance to get together.
Petra suggested that we should invite external speakers and Knut suggested other projects being invited to discuss national/regional
view. Rudolf also suggested Sustainability as a topic (on top of being just a WP for PaNOSC)
Further suggested content was collaboration/discussions between WPs (to ensure that we work together well).

**OFF-TOPIC** : Then for a while we drifted to the MoU between ExPANDs and PaNOSC. Jordi pointed out that there is a big section on
confidentiality while both projects are about FAIR data and open source to which Knut replied tha this is a common standard thing.
Thomas pointed out that clause in the MoU allows us to share confidential content.
Jean-Francois pointed out that we should maximise impact for the EU Commission via the MoU and Andy added that we should avoid
duplication of efforts.

3. **List of invited observers/stakeholders**

The following were suggested:

|  Role/Group invited | Number expected | Named person(s) |
|------------------ | ----------------- | --------------- |
| Coordinators  (PaNOSC & ExPANDs) | 2 | Andy; Knut |
| WP Leaders (PaNOSC & ExPANDs) | Approx: 6 + 9 = 15 | [...] |
| PaNOSC EB | 6 | [...] |
| EOSC Board (7 members) | 1 or 2 | [...]  |
| EOSC Secretariat | 1 or 2 | [...]  |
| FAIRsFAIR | 1 or 2 |  [...] |
| Project Officer (PaNOSC & ExPANDs) | 2 | [...]  |
| Other InfraEOSC 5b cluster projects |  ~6 | | [...] |
| User/Scientists or representatives of user associations | ??? | [...]  |

4. **AOB**

Finally as any other business we talked about the upcoming deliverable that Nicoletta put together. As the deadline is very close
it was agreed that Andy will look at it, review it and submit it before the deadline.
