PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 22/05/2019
========================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC),  Petra (ESS),
Jean-Francois (ILL), Florian (ELI)

Minutes
-------

1. **Upcoming Deliverables (D1.2 Mid-year summary, D1.4 DMP, D9.2 PaNOSC's website, D9.1 Comm & dissemination plan)**

	Support is required to complete the deliverables D1.2 and D1.4. Jordi asked every work package leader and research institute 
	representative to go to Google docs and update them.  The URLS are: 
	
	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mE57zQmu7f2qMJ3DktO8JFAkqEFk7OLKAYRNjQ28-gk/edit

	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FEhzWDgVcoctZgvFs3OQU5EgxH9fAqcAjNlw3hKleX4/edit

	**The deadline to provide input to these two documents is Tuesday 28th May at midday**, so it can be submitted on Wednesday.
	Regarding the website Nicoletta said that it is ready to go live, with only details of the privacy policy missing. 
	She also asked 	that everyone attending a PaNOSC-related event writes a little report/feedback and shares it with her.
	
2. Upcoming Tasks & Milestones

	*MS5.1 Simulation codes in PaNdata software catalog* - done and ticked as completed
	
	*MS7.1 Stakeholders Database* - this milestone is due end of May 2019. 
	Roberto has a document ready with a questionnaire. Some stakeholdes still missing, so feedback required

	*MS8.1 Joint WP4 and WP8 work plan* - the milestone is due end of May. 
	*MS8.2 Joint WP5 and WP8 work plan* - the milestone is due end of May 2019. 
	Petra reported that Thomas told her that he will draft something by the end of the month

3. Feedback from 2nd Executive Meeting: Internal deliverables/milestones

	It was agreed that Andy will share a list of suggested "internal milestones". The list will then be reviewed, refined and
	approved before the end of July.
	The idea is that WP leaders will need to provide feedback on whether they have achieved these "internal milestones" or not,
	so WP1 can follow-up easily whether the project is advancing and where there could be problems.

	As an example of "internal milestone" Andy talked about *T2.1 Lessons learned and FAIR definitions* - a task that will 
	finish end of May 2019. **ACTION - To have an outcome/produce something.**

4. Update from the WP Leaders - update on resources assigned + hiring + work plans
	*    WP1 Management - Jordi reported work on D1.2 MidYear Summary and D1.3 DMP due next week.
	*    WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship - Andy attended an OpenAIR seminar. Meeting with Jonathan regardin the framework.
	     Roby to share a draft policy presentation for CERIC, as data policies affect sustainability.
	*    WP3 Data Catalog Services - Tobias was absent. Petra reported a kick-off meeting by Tobias and that he went to 
	     Diamond and talked with ExPANDs about Nexus. Andy would like info about this meeting with ExPANDs shared.
	*    WP4 Data Analysis Services - Hans was absent. There is an XFEL meeting towards the end of June
	*    WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory - Carsten and Manolo absent. Andy reported the OASYS school
	*    WP6 EOSC Integration - Jean-Francois reported meeting last week at PSI with LEAPS, discussing the use of EDUTeams for
	     Umbrella. However members of Umbrella ID weren't present, so a vote couldn't take place but he will produce a paper
  	     for that. If approved that would be a great achievement for WP6 and be the basis for SSA. Good progress
	*    WP7 Sustainibility - Roberto gave update on Stakeholders list and questionnaire. Andy to share information about PUMA
	     (an ILL project) with Roberto. Jean-Francois asked about how to measure and what is the TCO (Total Cost of Ownership/
	     Operation for data management.
	*    WP8 Staff training in data stewardship - Thomas as absent. Petra said a meeting took place the 15th and minutes in
	     GitHub. Thomas planning something similar to a Stewardship school.
	*    WP9 Outreach &Communication - Nicoletta already working on Communication Stategy (due end of June). She would like
	     to have our support to strenghten the coordination between communication teams in different cluseter projects. We could
	     invite representatives from other cluster projects to our annual meeting

5. Review any other existing issues: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
	
	There was no time to go through the issues list, however Dario asked for a draft agenda to be provided for PaNOSC annual
	meeting at the end of October as he requires this for the participation form for the annual meeting.

6. Job openings and hirings

	ESRF - Andy mentioned that the sys admin job has to be opened again due to the chosen candidate refusing the offer; there is also an opening for a web developer.
	ESS  - 1 new hire, starting in August

7. News from other proposals and events - ExPANDS, EOSCEnhance, FAIRsFAIR, First OASYS School

	Events soon taking place in Turin, Tallin and Hamburg

8. AOB

	For the next meeting we would like to have two items at the top of the Agenda: *ExPANDs* and *HDF5 workshop*
