PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 13/03/2019
========================================================


Present
------

Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC),
Andy (ESRF), Axel (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Jean-Francois (ILL)


Minutes
------
1. _**Upcoming Deliverables**_

    Jordi explained that the next deliverables coming up are: 
*    **D1.2 Mid-Year summary** : Jordi has started work and will share it in Google Drive so everyone can contribute. Due end of May.
*    **D1.4 Data Management Plan** : Thomas will share a DMP that could help us as a template to follow. This has not started and
it is due end of May.
*    **D9.2 PaNOSC's website** : Mostly done, Nicoletta would like to receive descriptions of WP from their leaders so the content is 
better. Due end of May.
*    **D9.1 PaNOSC's Communication and Dissemination Plans** : Due end of June

2. _**Upcoming Milestones**_

    Jordi reminded everyone that a useful document listing all Tasks, Milestones and Deliverables can be found on:
https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Plans/PANOSC%20Tasks%2C%20Deliverables%20and%20Milestones.docx

    Jordi was asked to check how to inform the EC of milestones achieved (after the meeting he could tick a milestone as achieved
in the EU Portal and save the changes (but not validate).

    Other upcoming milestones are
*    **Simulation codes in PaNData Software Catalog** : Andy explained that every parter should do their part for this
*    **Stakeholder database ready** : Dario reported that this is in progress
*    **Joint WP4-WP8 plan** and also **Joint WP5-WP8 Plan** : unfortunately there isn't much progress there to report
*    **PaNOSC's website** : this will be done as per D9.2


3. _**Signing of Consortium Agreement**_

    Andy explained that all the signatures except ELI has been received, however this will be solved very soon.


4. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi wasn't present in the last meeting and only can report progress in D1.2 Mid-Year Summary. Jordi
also reminded everyone that the agreed Financial Report will need to be done for the next Executive Board meeting.
Andy pointed out that all WP leaders should update summaries of their meetings in GitHub, so we can all follow all WPs. We are missing minutes for WP3, WP5, WP7, WP8 and WP9.
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy reported work in a lessons learnt document by CERIC and a report from Jon (ESS).
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent. Petra reported planning an event to be hosted at DMSC
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported attendance by XFEL to EGI conference (in Amsterdam) and also a 
face-to-face meeting 25-27th June at XFEL for WP4 collaborators
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Manuel was absent and XFEL will interview soon for Carsten replacement.
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois reported  a meeting with Geant for Authentication and a pilot to be prepared
for a meeting at PSI in May
*    **WP7 Sustainability** - Dario is planning to send information about the stakeholders for sustainability by 5th April.
Andy suggested that it would be good to have a meeting with more partners as CERIC is working in isolation in this WP
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas reported a Secondment being agreed for resourcing the training platform.
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - A new logo for PaNOSC has been chosen, which will enable us to finalise templates to use
going forward


6. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    We ran out of time, however we agreed to discuss ahead of the next meeting via email and the issues feature of GitHub these
    two items:

*   **Agenda for next Executive Board meeting**
*   Meeting room size and number of expected attendees for **meeting in Trieste**
*   How could PaNOSC participate in the European Open Science Forum, July 2020 in Trieste (https://www.esof.eu/en/home.html)
    
   Hans and Thomas requested a copy of the ExPaNDS proposal, which Jordi will send after the meeting.
