PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - Review Meeting preparation - 20/05/2020
============================================================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL),  Nicoletta (CERIC),  Jean-François (ILL), Thomas (ESS), Ornela(CERIC) and Giuseppe (EGI)


Minutes
-------	

**1. List of invited attendees for the meeting ([see Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0))** 

Jordi explained that the PO has requested the names and email addresses of all attendees, so he can send invitations for the Review Meeting. The attendees reviewed the list available in the ([Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0)) and decided that we will have 19 attendees:
* The 9 WP leaders
* A representative from ELI (not leading any WP)
* A representative from EGI (not leading any WP)
* A representative from PaNOSC's Executive Board
* A representative from ExPaNDS
* Supporting WP staff (1 for WP5, 4 for WP4, 1 for WP8)

Jordi will send the list to our PO


**2. Review Report template - [editable version for us here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit?dls=true)**

All the attendees looked at the document linked and agreed that:
* **PERIODIC REPORT SECTION - Points 1, 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3** will be drafted by Andy (page 4)
* *Nothing else is required for the PO at this stage (but required by 30th July)*
* **1.1 Objectives** already completed by Ornela (in page 18)
* **1.2 Explanation of the work carried per WP** to complete this. Jordi suggested  1 to 2.5 pages for each Work Package, however Hans used a lot more (10 pages) and justified the reasons behind this. While there were concerns that this may be too much if replicated amongst all WPs, it was finally decided to try to be concise without putting a limit on the number of pages. Ornela pointed out that it is important to highlight what has been done and how it contributes to the project objectives. Andy added that we expect FAIR, EOSC and PaN community to feature prominently in all explanations of work carried per WP. Andy will also review the WP4 area and reduce it (if required).
* **1.3 Impact** This is required
* **1.4 Access provisions to RIs** This is **NOT** required
* **1.5  Resources used to provide access to RIs** This is **NOT** required
* **2 Update of the plan for exploitation and dissemination of result (if applicable)** Nicoletta to add a short paragraph saying that nothing has changed
* **3. Update of the data management plan (if applicable)** Jordi to add a short paragraph saying that nothing has changed
* **4. Follow-up of recommendations and comments from previous review(s) ** Not applicable
* **5 Deviations from Annex 1 and Annex 2** and **5.1 Tasks** Jordi to add a short paragraph to explain that everything is more or less advancing according to plan
* **5.2 Use of Resources** Andy to write something
* **5.2.1 Unforeseen subcontracting** , no unforeseen subcontracting took place. Just the planned one for the Website. Nicoletta to add a short paragraph explaining this.
* **5.2.2 Unforeseen use of in kind contribution from third party against payment or free of charges** Andy to write a short text saying that ExPaNDS is collaborating with us for free.
* **Periodic Financial Report and other sections** not required for the PO at this stage (but required by 30th July)


**3. Review Meeting content & structure***

Jordi read the text provided by the PO about what will be examined (available in the agenda for this meeting) and then moved on to review the schedule ([see Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0)).

Thomas requested (and was accepted) that WP8 and WP8 demo should be bundled together.
Jean-François also requested 10 minutes for a data transfer demo before lunch (and was accepted). 
Jordi requested also 10 minutes at the very end, to go through WP1 (and was accepted).
Jordi updated the schedule in the document.


**4. Planning the review meeting**

All participants agreed on these actions and deadlines:

| item to prepare | info | dates |
| --------------- | ---- | ---- |
| Submitting May deliverables | | until end of May the latest |
| Prepare draft M18 Review Report | *and send it to PO/Reviewer* | from now until 1st June |
| Prepare demos | | from now until rehearsal date (5th June) |
| Prepare presentations | *using KPIs?* | from now until rehearsal date (5th June) | 
| Requesting financial info | *up to end of May*| 1st June |
| Rehearsal | | 5th June, all afternoon|
| **Review meeting** | | 16th June |
| Obtain Financial info | | latest 20th June |
| Complete M18 Review Report | | 10th July |
| Submit M18 Review Report | | 31st July |




