PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 21/10/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-François (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Florian (ELI), Teodor (ELI), Tobias (ESS), Julie (ILL), Stuart (ILL), Sandor (XFEL), Carsten (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Teodor (ELI), Roberto (CERIC), Ornela (CERIC), Thomas (ESS), Jonathan (ESS) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting it was requested by Andy to talk about the EGI Conference that took place earlier in the week.

**1. [Annual Meeting](https://indico.eli-beams.eu/event/376/page/0)**

Sophie explained that so far only WP1 has shared its presentation and that further work is required to prepare the EOSC Panel Discussion.

Florian explained that Rudolf will moderate the discussion which will take place on Monday after the first introductory talk by Patrick (ExPaNDS) and Andy. He added that the four panelist are chosen (Tiziana Ferrari, Jan Hrušák, Rupert Lück and Christian Cuciniello) and that a shortlist of questions for the panel is available. Rudolf explained that the [questions](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l8T6IBjPo_Ejg_eRVv8RjY0AXa-S7ydyeJ6aBFENk7Y/edit#) are difficult but the intention is to obtain some information and listen to the possible different approaches for the EOSC rather than put the panelist in difficulties. On top of these questions attendees could make some more. Jon added that a question regarding KPIs around the EOSC value-added could be interesting. Also, he noted that Research Infrastructures are part of the EOSC landscape, so there are certainly different views.

Andy said that his presentation with Patrick that will preceed the panel could finish with their vision for the EOSC to start a comparisson with what the panelist think.

Florian added that there are 173 registrations as of 04/11/2020.

Rudolf asked whether there is an agenda for the Executive Board meeting and Andy said that he will remind Thomas about it.

Florian ended by answering a question from Sandor about the timing for the WP presentations: it will be 20 minutes presentation + 20 minutes discussion.

**1.5 EGI Conference**

Andy reported a session shared with Patrick and 5 presentions made, however there weren't many questions, so he is asking himself whether PaNOC's participation had much of an impact. Sophie agreed with the statement and added that a session on GAIA-X was interesting, however they didn't know much about the EOSC and there may be an overlap. Rudolf said that he was impressed by the strong attendance however not so sure about the outcome with Sophie adding that sessions seemed to have more impact at the technical level.

**5. WP leaders updates**

* **WP5** : Carsten reported wrapping up the milestone, which will be supported by a written document with a summary of work done and link to videos and other resources. The deliverable is also being finished and will be adocument linking new releases of software packages for OASYS, Simex and McStas. Carsten also reported preparing the annual meeting presetation. Jordi asked Carsten to keep Nicoletta on the loop for any dissemination that could be done regarding all the good work WP5 is finalising.

* **WP4** : Sandor reported having taken over Hans as WP leader and was welcomed in the first offical PMC meeting by Andy (in the previous one Sandor attended as an observer). Sandor explained that he is looking at internal milestones, resource availability at the different partners and that a meeting is planned for the end of the week.

* **WP3** : Tobias reported progress with the demostrator (due in March 2021) and working onthe presentations for the annual meeting. Tobias clarified to Sandor that for the annual meeting there won't be a demo but traditional slides.


* **WP2** : Andy reported ongoing work towards the milestone and starting to write the guidelines for implementing the data policy which is a deliverable coming up. He also reported meeting with Brian and asked ILL for a WP2 contact to which Stuart replied that recruitment for this is ongoing.

* **WP1** : Jordi reported working with Sophie on the WP1 presentation for the annual meeting. The next steps would be to review the risks (as per mid-term report feedback) during November, when ExPaNDS is due to review their own risks as well. Jordi finished by adding that at the end of the WP1 presentation Sophie and him will ask how WP1 can help WP leaders and facilities in PaNOSC and that feedback/ideas will be welcomed.

* **WP9** : Nicoletta said that she will be also asking WP leaders how WP9 can help with the dissemination of WP results. Nicoletta reported working with ExPaNDS on the presentation and sharing some info regarding use cases with Andy. 

Nicoletta added brochure presentation and that the Communicaton and Dissemination strategy document has been updated, will be presented during the annual meeting and can be uploaded to the EC portal after the event.


* **WP8** : Thomas reported a presentation during the EGI conference and that he had the same impression as Andy and others regarding the event. Work with Florian is ongoing for the Annual Meeting presentation as it is technical work to integrate Jupyter in the e-learning platform.

Regarding recruitment Thomas reported that Vincent FN (Hercules) is in the recruitment panel.

* **WP7** : Ornela reported a change in the template for the cost collection and starting the business model. Also, a meeting is schedule to prepare some feedback regarding the [Iron Lady](https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/system/files/solutions_for_a_sustainable_eosc_-_ironlady_draft_19oct20.pdf) report (this report followed the tinman and strawman reports).

* **WP6** : Jean-François reported that he has been contacted by ELI and STFC for increase participation in WP6 and that ILL has started work in the upcoming deliverable (which will be late). Jean-François reported work in the docker-registry which was demanded in a previous survey about the software catalogue. 

Jean-François also reported testing of OneData, good progress at the ESRF regarding recruitment for WP6 and that the late milestone M6.2 will be ready by the end of November for sure.

















