PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 03/06/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Rudolf (ESRF), Petra (ESS), Roberto (CERIC), Carsten (XFEL) and Jon (ESS)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Announcement**

Jordi reported that all the deliverables due end of May were successfully delivered and thanked everyone for their contribution. Jordi also noted that two milestones were due end of May:
  * One related to WP4 that has been achieved
  * Another one related to making services available in the EOSC (WP6 + another WP) which has not been marked as achieved yet

Jean-François explained that using a form it is possible to register services in the EOSC and that it should be possible to do so for the Software Catalogue and the training platform. That would enable us to achieve the milestone and also gather feedback from users and the process.
Andy replied that while is good to receive feedback, these two services were not developed as part of PaNOSC. Jean-François explained that to have something ready from WP4 or WP3 would take longer.
Andy also enquired whether it would be possible to register the Jupyter Binder from EGI and Jean-François replied that he would talk with Giuseppe this afternoon.

At this point, it was agreed to take the conversation off-line, encourage Andy, Giuseppe, Jean-François and also other WP leaders to reach an agreement, move towards registering services in the EOSC and decide on the next PMC about the milestone.

Jordi then reminded everyone that the Financial part of the Periodic Report will need to be inputed in the portal by each partner and then validated by the Coordinator. Andy and Jordi won't be available from mid-July, therefore it is important to submit all information by the end of June. Jordi also explained that asked all partners to provide information in a table for an internal financial report. If we could obtain that information ahead of the Review Meeting that would be very useful.

**2. Current state of affairs for Review Meeting**

There were no futher comments regarding the attendees or the schedule for the review meeting. Andy explained that he will share the draft Periodic Report (Part B - technical) with our Project Officer today, thanked everyone that contributed and asked everyone to contribute if they had not done so already.

**3. Review Meeting presentations**

There was no feedback for:
*  [PaNOSC_WP1_ReviewMeeting.pptx](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/files/4721833/PaNOSC_WP1_ReviewMeeting.pptx)
*  [Draft WP9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/raw/master/Work%20Packages/WP9%20Outreach%20and%20communication/Presentations/M18%20Review%20Meeting/WP9-PaNOSC_NCarboni_2020ReviewMeeting.pdf)

However Andy said that [WP4-intro-fangohr.pptx](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/files/4712783/WP4-intro-fangohr.pptx) was ver comprehensive.

It was also agreed that given that our PO asked for a draft report two weeks in advance it should be OK to assume it has been read, therefore presentations / demos could make references to the periodic report.

Carsten said that he has received a draft presentation from Juncheng and that he will upload it to GitHub very soon.

It was agreed that feedback to the presentations, should be given via the management mailing list, so everyone gets all the feedback (and authors do not get contradictory feedback).

Andy suggested after that it is important to link the activities in each WP to the key objectives:

 *1. Participate in the construction of the EOSC by linking with the e-infrastructures and other ESFRI clusters.*

 Highlight: links to EOSC (WP6+WP8), e-infrastructures (WP6) + clusters (WP9)

 *2. Make scientific data produced at Europe’s major Photon and Neutron sources fully compatible with the FAIR principles.*

 Highlight: adoption of FAIR data policy (WP2) , search API (WP3) , reproducible science (WP4+WP5)

 *3. Generalise the adoption of open data policies, standard metadata and data stewardship from 15 photon and neutron RIs and physics institutes across Europe.*

 Highlight: FAIR data policy (WP2) , standard metadata + catalogues (WP3)

 *4. Provide innovative data services to the users of these facilities locally and the scientific community at large via the European Open Science Cloud (EOSC).*

 Highlight: Jupyter + Binder services, HDF5 tools (WP4 + WP5), simulation services (WP5), data transfer (WP6)

 *5. Increase the impact of RIs by ensuring data from user experiments can be used beyond the initial scope.*

 Highlight: User stories presented in demos (WP4 + WP5), training (WP8)

 *6. Share the outcomes with the national RIs who are observers in the proposal and the community at large to promote the adoption of FAIR data principles, data stewardship and the EOSC*

 Highlight: collaboration with ExPaNDS (WP1, WP2, WP3, WP4, WP8, WP9)

 Include the following key words into your slides: **FAIR, EOSC, Open Science, reproducibility, Open Data, Open Source, User Cases, Users, ...**

**4. Rehearsal structure**
Tobias stated that he will not be able to attend the rehearsal and it was agreed that for the rehearsal Jordi will share zoom meeting details. The rehearsal will last from 13:00h until 17:00h and everyone should attend in its enterity. 

Andy requested Jordi to make clear that the time allocated for each presentation is the maximum not too be exceeded, however it is OK to consume less time.

The rehearsal will follow the structure of the Review Meeting, with the same presentations, demos and slots in the same order.















