PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 10/04/2019
========================================================


Present
-------

Jordi (ESRF), Axel (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Hans (XFEL), Gareth & others (ESS), Florian (ELI-DC)

Minutes
-------

1. _**Upcoming Deliverables (D1.2 Mid-year summary, D1.4 DMP, D9.2 PaNOSC's website, D9.1 Comm & dissemination plan)**_

    Jordi explained that a draft Mid-year summary and DMP are now available in Google docs, so everyone can help.
    Hans pointed out that it would be good to add _TODO_ comments, so it is clear what contributions are required and where.
    Jordi agreed to expand a little bit more the documents and then add these _TODO_ comments for both D1.2 and D1.4.

    Regarding D9.2 and D9.1 Dario explained that they are in progress and at this stage there aren't any concerns.

2. _**Upcoming Milestones**_

    Jordi reminded of the joint plans and other milestones (5 milestones due end of May).

3. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi repored progress in D1.2 Mid-Year Summary and D1.4 DMP. 
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy reported work in a lessons learnt  and a paper submitted to Synchrotron Radiation
 News
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent. The ESS team reported work on a survery of data catalogs at different
institutes (except XFEL, as they do not have an XFEL representative, so Hans will try to get Luis Maia involved in this). Also there
was work reported in a Metadata harvester (OAI-PMH?)
A kick-off meeting for the WP will take place in Copenhaguen  23rd and 34th May
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans reported a kick off meeting organised 25th to 27th of June at XFEL and he would like 
some representation of WP3 to attend.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Manuel was absent.
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois was absent. Andy reported that a meeting will take place today (10th April) with EGI.
*    **WP7 Sustainability** - Dario reported that Roberto will organise a meeting. Also work on the stakeholder database is pretty
much ready.
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was absent. The ESS team reported progress on the e-learning platform and
a meeting with Hans planned for this week.
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Dario reported that Nicoletta requested content for the website regarding each WP, so it
would be good if she could get some feedback.

4. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

	1. [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status: Maybe we could ask PaNOSC Executive Board to help, however
EXPaNDs will not have their kick-off meeting until after the summer, so we have time.
	2. [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement: The CA is signed, so this can be closed.
	3. [#20](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/20) Data Management Plan: already talked about it in _Upcoming deliverables_
	4. [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists: No news
	5. [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management: No news
	6. [#27](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/27) First Annual Meeting: Dario confirmed it will be in Savoy Hotel, with
a expected number of attendees of around 100 and extra two days in Elettra for WP meetings. Dario will update the issue in GitHub
with all the details.
	7. [#28](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/28) PaNOSC logo: Nicoletta will circulate a final version soon, until
we have it (and all visual identity templates) we will carry on using the existing logo.
	8. [#29](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/29) Deliverable D10.1 POPD Requirement: Jordi has not progressed with this
but will work with Andy on this item before the next conference call.
	9. [#31](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/31) Report on kick-off: this will be part of D1.2
	10. [#34](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/34) Questions to FAIRsFAIR: this can be closed
	11. [#35](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/35) Website development: already talked about it in item 3
	12. [#36](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/36) Items for Executive Board: There is an executive Board in May.
Andy said that he is worried that not all work packages are advancing as fast as forecasted, which is a riks for the project and
will bring it to the Executive Board. If anyone has any other ideas for topics to be covered in the meeting please add some 
content to the issue in GitHub.

5. _**Job openings and hirings**_

The ESRF has made 1 offer out of the 3 positions open that has. CERIC-ERIC has pretty much completed hiring (only one missing).
XFEL holding interviews next week with another position possible in September. ESS has a candidate that will start soon work
on WP4, WP6 and WP8, with another open position for WP3. ELI reported a position open in Prague for WP4 and looking for a
coordinator for ELI-DC. Florian is in particular interested in hearing about good experiences and tips regarding hiring and 
advertising for jobs.

**There weren't any other news to report and the meeting finished at 14:55h**
