#+TITLE: WP4 video conference 24 September 2019
#+OPTIONS: num:1

:present:

* Actions from last meeting

[[../2019-09-10/notes.org][Minutes from last meeting]]

- put more detailed description in tasks (https://github.com/orgs/panosc-eu/projects/3)
- Stuart: add Architecture slides to minutes from last time

* Status update from each facility

* Report from PaNOSC kick off meeting (Hans)
- scope
- calipso plus functionality
- publications as use cases

* Introdution to Singularity (Robert)

* Next meeting
- is scheduled during ICALEPCS conference

* AoB

