PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 29/01/2020
========================================================


Present
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF),  Jamie (ILL), Petra (ESS), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Jesper (ESS), Jon (ESS),  Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Giuseppe (EGI) and Sophie (ExPaNDS-DESY)

Minutes
-------	

**1. Feedback from Executive Board meeting** 

Andy reported that it took place as planned and that Thomas Tschentscher will distribute the minutes of the
meeting. Some of the topics raised where INFRAEOSC 03 and 07 calls (Rudolf to represent us for these), the
proposed agenda for the review meeting (accepted) and the venue/date for a joint annual meeting with ExPaNDS.


**2. Dates + Draft agenda for the Review meeting in Brussels** 

Andy explained that the demo approach discussed in the previous PMC has been validated by the EB (as per previous point of the agenda).  It has been confirmed as well that Thomas Tschentscher (EB Chair) won't be able to attend. Andy has been tasked (as per issue [52](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/52)) to clarify with our project officer the exact date of the review meeting, to ensure everyone is able to attend (or at least maximise the number of attendees from PaNOSC).

**3. Date for next Annual Meeting with ExPaNDS**

Andy said that a joint annual meeting with ExPaNDS was as well validated by the EB and a date range proposed: 19th October to 1st November (i.e. the last two weeks of October). ELI-DC has proposed to host the meeting. 

Sophie said that a possible format could be four days:
* 1st day for joint plenary
* 2nd day for PaNOSC/ExPaNDS separate plenary sessions
* 3rd and 4th days for WP breakout meetings

There wasn't full agreement on whether two full days of plenary sessions is required as 1 1/2 days maybe enough, however, no one suggested a duration different than the four days proposed.

Andy suggested to start around lunch time, enabling people to travel on the same day.

Thomas asked about the amount of people expected to attend to which the reply was around 100. ExPaNDS kick-off was attended by 46 people and PaNOSC annual meeting by ~70, with significant overlap between the two, therefore ~100 would be goo.

A new issue ([issue 53](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/53)) has been created for Florian to confirm details (exact dates & max attendee number) for the annual meeting.


**4. Possible joint participation with ExPaNDS in SXNS event in Lund, 23-26 June 2020, at the cost of 1500 EUR per project.**

Nicoleta explained that she has been asked whether ExPaNDS and PaNOSC would like to jointly sponsor this event and have a boot. Jordi said that in principle attending events and paying for it shouldn't be a problem as long as WP9 & CERIC have budget for it.
Thomas poined out that the SXNS (Surface X-Ray and Neutron Scattering) costs are not to attend but to sponsor and that's different.  Andy will ask our Project Officer about this, while Nicoletta will check what is the deadline to give an answer for SXNS.

Jon asked whether ExPaNDS is funding SXNS for sure and Sophie replied that ExPaNDS won't go alone, only jointly with PaNOSC.

Andy pointed out that at this stage of the project it may be better to attend events to present and explain our projects, rather than having a booth. It is unclear (Nicoletta to check) if we could just attend the meeting to talk about PaNOSC without having a booth.

**5. INFRAEOSC-07 A1 project proposal by EGI**

Andy explained that Tiziana (EGI) shared with the EB a document about the INFRAEOSC-07 A1 project proposal and asked whether anyone has read it.

*NOTE: The PMC and the EB do not overlap 100%, therefore some people may not have access the document*

It was raised as well the question on whether participating in INFRAEOSC 07 and 03 is mutually exclusive or not.

**6. Mailing lists issues**

There have been some issues with mailing lists, affecting WP3 particularly. However plenty of PMC attendees value emails. Jasper said that maybe ESS could provide a mailing list service that is more reliable.

**7. REMINDER OF Next Deliverables & Milestones** 

Jordi reminded everyone of the upcoming deliverables and milestones. Jordi also pointed out that many *Internal Milestones* do not have supporting documentation in GitHub.

| Deliverable | New date | Original Date | 
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | 
| D1.2b Mid-year Summary | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated | **end April** | *May 2020* | 
| D3.1 API definition | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service | **mid-April** | *May 2020* |  
| D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks | **April?** | *May 2020* | 

| Milestone | Due date |
| --------- | -------- |
| MS8.3 pan-learning.org up and running | **February 2020** |

| Internal Milestone | Due date |
| ------------------ | -------- |
| IMS3.2 API Feedback from ExPaNDS | March 2020 |
| IMS3.3 Community Meeting on NeXus Ontologies | March 2020 |
| IMS8.2 Solution for Jupyter integration found [T8.2] | December 2019 |
| UMS8.3 Budget clarification for hardware [T8.1] | **January 2020** |
| IMS8.6 Wish-list from partners defined [T8.3] | **December 2019** |
| IMS8.7 Worksop scheduled [T8.3] | **February 2020** |
| IMS8.8 First facility specific course integrated [T8.3] | May 2020 |
| IMS9.1 Report on Y1 outreach activities published | **December 2019** |

**8. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

   **WP1 - Management** : Jordi didn't have much to report, except a catch-up with Manolo related to WP5

   **WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship** : Andy  reported a meeting and review comments for the next version of the Data Policy Framework, which needs comparing with FAIR principles. Andy also noted that Brian (ExPaNDS) has not been available recently to which Sophie noted that he is very busy. Andy would like to confirm whether ExPaNDS and PaNOSC will use the same Framework which will be ideal. Andy will attend a meeting in The Hague about certification of the Data Policy Framework with FAIRsFAIR.

   **WP3 - Data Catalog Services** : Tobias still doesn't have feedback for integrating sources for API and has a meeting scheduled 11th and 12th February for API definition (related to D3.1 due end od May)

   **WP4 - Dta Analysis Services** : Hans was absent (XFEL user meeting). **Jamie couldn't be heard PLEASE HELP WITH THIS**. Jamie also reported a gap in communication and coordination between partners for WP4 to which Andy replied that next week the ESRF has staff starting which should help WP4

   **WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** : Juncheng was absent (XFEL user meeting). Jordi reported that Manolo (ESRF on sabattical until mid-June) won't be able to attend the WP5 face-to-face meeting planned for April, however he can be contacted by email. Manolo is due to return to the ESRF 17th June 2020 and in the meantime the work for WP5 at the ESRF will be unfortunately delayed.

Thomas also reported a McStas hackaton this week.

   **WP6 - EOSC Integration** : Jean-Francois was absent. Jaimie reported a Globus connect discussion and email and a planned telco with EGI and others. AAI work is oingoung and Confluence is now connected to EduGain?

Giuseppe said that everything is progressing well and that next step is to connect to eduTeams and check that from JupyterNotebook we can use eduTeam and compute in EGI.

Nicoletta said that a new video is available available from [our website](https://www.panosc.eu/news/) or our [youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7ULx4C4OCbKlpAp0Xtd4wQ/featured)

   **WP7 - Sustainibility** : Roberto reported a meeting of WP7 taking place [29/01/2020 in the morning](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/project%20meetings/2020-01-29/Minute.md) in which it was discussed the Tinman report.  Roberto asked everyone to share feedback by Monday 3rd Feburary, so he can draft and share a joint PaNOSC response Tuesday the 4th. That would let time for a possible meeting Wednesday or Thursday and share feedback by Friday 7th (deadline for feedback).  Roberto will also be in touch with Rupert (EOSC Secretariat Sustainability WG co-chair) about what kind of feedback is expected in the meantime.

During the WP7 meeting *D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks* was also discussed. Roberto could deliver a draft list of stakeholders by March. Jordi said that a list of stakholders does not contain feedback (as the title suggests) and it is similar to the already achieved milestone *MS7.1 Stakeholder database ready*. In the grant agreement the description of D7.1 is not clear. 

This topic needs to be further discussed to ensure there is agreement in PaNOSC about what to deliver.

Roberto said that due to other commitments Ornela will become deputy WP7 leader and will take a more active role on WP7 during the next six months, covering for Roberto.

   **WP8 - Staff training in data stewardship** : Thomas explained a meeting between ExPaNDS and PaNOSC is planned for next week and that Linda is still in sick leave. A plan B may need to be put in place for the training sessions about how to use and create content in the training site.

Jesper asked whether money could be supplied for hardware required for the training site to which Andy replied that it is not possible as Hardware does not fully depreciate over the lifetime of PaNOSC, however we could potentially get computing resources from EGI or use the money we have reserved for cloud resources.
Jesper replied that he would like to minimise extra work, as the training site is not readily  portable to other hardware or virtual platform.

   **WP9 - Outreach & Communication** : Nicoletta reported the videos (see WP6 above) and the SXNS event. It is not clear whether she will attend the ESOF.







