PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - Review Meeting preparation - 08/04/2020
============================================================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL),  Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario(CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Roberto (CERIC)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Review Meeting dates - *Tuesday 16th June*** 

Jordi reminded everyone that the booked date for the Remote Review Meeting is Tuesday 16th June and that the meeting is expected to take the whole day.

Jean-François explained that the format could be half a day (morning) of presentations / demos from us, with feedback/conversation with reviewer and project officer (PO) in the afternoon.

Florian explained that he has had two blocks. First, around 2 hours of presentations and then after lunch an interactive block (questions / answers). Also he explained that the PO in that occassion was in favor of letting the project team propose the agenda / organisation.

Andy explained that our PO (René) has said that the remote review meeting will last up to one day and that he proposed Webex as technology.

It was agreed that once we have a more detailed planning for the review meeting we should make a proposal that suits us well for how to organise the review meeting to our PO and reviewer.

**2. List of invited attendees for the meeting**

Jordi explained that he proposes to limit the number of attendees (so we are not 50). He suggested all the WP leaders, a representative from each partner not leading a WP (ELI and EGI) and maybe someone from ExPaNDS to highlight the good collaboration between the two projects.

Jean-François said that for WP6 it would be very good and it would make loads of sense to have Giuseppe (EGI). Andy explained that when he had a meeting of this kind many years ago it was only attended by the people that presented. Andy also explained that our PO said that the **minimum configuration** is the WP leaders (or their representatives), the PO, the reviewer and the coordinator (in our case the coordinator is at the same time WP2 leader). Rudolf suggested to invite someone from our Executive Board and Andy suggested the Chair of the EB.

It was agreed that we could have more than just the minimum configuration, however any addition should be justified. Relevant people that can add up to our review meeting and improve it will be welcomed. 

Jordi created after the meeting [this document in google docs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0), so everyone can add/suggest attendees and the role they would play:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0

**6. Demos**

As Hans had to leave early the meeting, we moved to this point. Jordi reminded the demo approach (if possible linking all WPs and explaining a story).
Andy and Juncheng said that WP4 and WP5 are already working on their demos ([see minutes of this meeting](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-04-07/notes.org)), however this is not yet linked to WP3, however this could be possible.

Andy asked how long the demos would take and Hans replied that 90 minutes for demos with some time to give content before and explain more stuff after should be enough. Jordi said that he will put together a schedule that people will be able to edit.

Thomas said that it would be good to compare analysis of experimental data (WP4) with simulated data (WP5).

Hans warned that linking all demos into a single big demo has the danger of going terrible wrong and to reduce this risk we could instead have several smaller demos that are related and cover many use cases / WPs / targets of PaNOSC. 

Jean-François added taht WP6 is not mature enough to support everything, but maybe we could use EGI's Jupyter Notebook service. Andy asked whether it could be possible to run some data analysis in EGI's Jupyter Notebook and for Giuseppe to add a binder. Jean-François said that there will be some stuff to demo WP6, but he doesn't know about the binder.

Jordi reminded everyone that we are not close to finishing the project, therefore we could not show everything working. Rudolf added that it is important to demo / show **use cases linked to FAIR and EOSC** to which everyone agreed.

Andy highlighted that different users may be interested in different use cases (som users may be interested only in downloading data, others in analysing it online, etc.). Andy answered a question from Jordi explaining that our PO worked in the past at ESRF's ID11 and has good knowledge/understanding of photon science.

Hans pointed out though that our reviewer is not a scientist. Andy agreed, however our reviewer (Eva) knows very well the EOSC.

Rudofl then said that demos in any case there will be short (Andy said that for WP4 some demos could take ~ 10 minutes). Andy said that demos should be accompanied by a good introduction/explanations so it is clear how the demo is linked to FAIR, to the EOSC and why it would make sense for users.

Juncheng and Thomas talked about WP5 demo, explaining that short/quick WP5 demos are possible and that it is also possible to launch a simulation and show the results (generated already by an earlier launched simulation, a bit like on TV cooking shows).

Jean-François asked whether we want to show VISA or only Jupyter and Hans explained that we could show VISA if we have the time.

Juncheng then showed a [presentation](https://www.dropbox.com/s/3w2mk3eguxbskf5/%5BPaNOSC%5DMid-term%20DEMO.pptx?dl=0), to which Andy asked to add a couple more of slides with general background as it is not safe to assume everyone undestands/knows what Serial Crystalography is. Andy suggested to use a diagram with logos for each WP / topic and then each demo/presentation consistenly using the same images, so it is clear how we cover all the topics. Thomas asked how WP5 would link with the EOSC and Juncheng suggested running a simulation in a cloud / Jupyter Notebook. Thomas suggested then loading some data through WP3 for a simulated experiment.

Andy then said that if there is some open data or similar to link our demos with a current and well known topic (like COVID-19) that could be a plus. Ornela and Roberto explained that while this is possible timescales are very short and it may be difficult to find open datasets for this (Thomas could find [this dataset](https://zenodo.org/record/3731294#.Xo3JL3tS_IU) already in Zenodo though).

Juncheng also said that it shoudl be possible to link WP5 with WP8 by showing/teaching via the training website what users could find in a real experiment and first simulating it.

**3. Review Report template - *[EC Website template](https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/docs/h2020-funding-guide/grants/grant-management/reports/periodic-reports_en.htm)* *and also [editable version for us here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit?dls=true)***

Jordi explained that the template in in PDF from the EC website was a bit tricky to convert to word and then upload to google docs so it is editable while keeping the format and a faire amount of manual work was needed to have this ready (expected to be done by 19/04/2020). Jordi also said that our PO indicated that while the Review Report is due end of July (up to 60 days after the end of the reporting period which is end of May) , he would like to have an advanced draft of the technical part in advance for the review meeting.

Andy explained that in section B (Technical part) the summary of each WP looks important. The summaries should show what we hav achieved, including all the specific things that we have done and that were not explicitily listed in the proposal. A small exchange between Ornela, Florian, Jordi and Rudolf clarified that this would mean being explicit and giving more detail and that we will be careful not tho give the impression that we are distracted with something not in the proposal.

**7. Rehearsal for Review Meeting**

Jordi suggested early June for a rehersal of the review meeting. That would be early enough that we could have time to improve the final presentations/demos but not too early so we do not have the time to have everything ready. 

Andy added that half a day would be needed for this.

It was agreed that Jordi will put a doodle together to organise this: https://doodle.com/poll/hsubfh5iuyk45iub

**AOB**

It was agreed that next week (15/04/2020) there will be a regular PMC and that it would be good to have a specific Review Meeting preparation catch-up the following week (22/04/2020).


