PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 15/01/2020
========================================================


Present
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-François (ILL), Juncheng (XFEL), Petra (ESS), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Florian (ELI-DC), Hans (XFEL), Giuseppe (EGI)

Minutes
-------	

**1. INFRAEOSC-03 & meeting 10/01/2020 in Brussels** 

Rudolf explained that during the meeting that took place in Brussels 10/01/2019 the call is to go on. The proposal is managed by Technopolis (a consutancy company) and the meeting took place in their offices. It was the first meeting with the research infrastructures (RIs) involved (previously there were only the E-Infrastructures & Technopolis). It is understood that the call will offer approximately:
    *  1 M€ for RDA
    * 10 M€ for Procurement
    * 30 M€ extra for E-Infrastructures and clusters

A proposed set of Work Packages (WP) was presented (the WP structure was created by E-Infrastructures without RIs) with the target to submit it **21st April? NOT SURE ABOUT THE DATE**, however it is not clear at this stage with the current WP structure what is the role that the cluster projects (PaNOSC, ESCAPE, etc.) could play. The minutes of the meeting are not yet available (Technopolis will publish them) and there seem to be a rather tight schedule for the proposal to be organised. 

The assumption is that cluster projects may provide data. In order for cluster projects (which are no legal entities) to participate the approach would be that one partner per cluster participates in the call, with the possibility of other partners participating as linked 3rd parties. The next round of conversation will be by video conference, however no formal date has been proposed yet.

At this point Jean-François (who also attended the meeting) explained that he understands that this call will be a bit like INFRA-EOSC 06, it won't be successful without the clusters and that cluster projects role could be one of providing specifications.

Rudolf replied that WPs are aligned to technical issues and running parallel to INFRA-EOSC 07, therefore 03 and 07 seem to be doing similar work with the same participating entities, therefore the proposal needs to be well written to avoid duplication.

Andy asked whether during the meeting there was any mention of money that could be allocated/reserved for RIs and Rudolf replied No, because cluster projects do not have a clear role to play yet.

Hans also mentioned that **the BOSSE proposal from a few months ago may get into INFRA-EOSC 07? NOT SURE ABOUT THIS**

At this point we moved on into the meeting 13/01/2020 that was attended by Andy in Brussels by ESFRI + cluster projects to botain the view and feeling of cluster projects about the EOSC. During the meeting some criticism of the EOSC took place (structure can be perceived as complex/messy and doubts about having a minimum viable ecosystem by the target timescales). Andy explained that there is interest in creating a legal organisation by the end of 2020 for the EOSC but this will need validation by EU Financing (EU countries' finance ministers agreement in Autumn).


**2. Draft agenda for the Review meeting in Brussels** 

Andy explained that we expect the review meeting covering the first 18 months of project execution to take place just after the 18th months have ended, therefore end of June / July. Also, a Executive Board meeting for PaNOSC is planned to take place soon via video conference and he would like to propose a draft agenda for validation.

Tobias asked whether an exact date has been chosen for the review meeting and Andy replied that no, but the review will cover 18 months (until the end of May) and some time will be left to read the deliverables/reports submitted in May, therefore he expects it to take place end of June or July.

Jordi then explained that his understanding is that it is up to PaNOSC to shape the structure of the review meeting and that it would be very good to have demos of what we have achieved so far. We are all working on PaNOSC, but by showing that we are delivering something "real" we will be seen as a productive cluster project. A demo example could be showing the AAI pilot working.

Hans said that demos are a great idea and that they could be supported by one day of presentations.

Andy then explained that he would like to present something specific for the Executive Board meeting about what demos we want to make:
    * **AAI** : Jean-François agreed that a demo could be delivered
    * **API Catalogs** : Tobias explained that the API definition is there, however it won't work with many data catalogs (only wit SciCat). Andy asked whether it was feasible for the API to work with two or three different catalogs and Tobias said tha the deliverable for this is way later. Hans explained that as a proof of concept, just with 1 catalog could be enough, however the principle/advantage of the API is to work with many catalogs, not only one. Tobias then said that it may be useful to use Jupyter Notebooks for this, finding a dataset via the API and then doing some sort of data analysis. This would mean working together with WP4 (there is a meeting planned for February to organise this).
    * **Simulations** : Juncheng explained that he can show simulations running, however they may be local, not online. Andy said that if they look remote that would be better. Juncheng said that it could be put in a Jupyter Notebook like a web service, even if it is in a local computer. Hans said that it should be possible to run simulations in the MAX IV cluster.
    * **Data Analysis** : Hans said that Jupyter Notebooks could be demoed. Jordi said tha something linking different WPs through Jupyter Notebooks and data analysis woudl be great. Thomas said that maybe we could have a simulation that runs and we could compare its results with real data experiment. Andy then asked for a proposal that would be covering WP3, WP4 and WP5.
    * **FAIR Data** : Andy also asked wether it could be possible to show how much open data we are generating and offering. Tobias said we could show data in public domain, maybe through OpenAIRE
    * **Training and Websites** : Jordi said that we could show the pan-learning.org and PaNOSC website that are running well. We then confirmed that by the end of February e-neutrons should be renamed pan-learning, so that shouldn't be a problem.

Jordi then said that for other WPs it would be good as well to show what we have achieved, like for example in Sustainability showing a report on what we have done and how we are working with Rupert Lueck, providing specific measures from our communities. Rudolf said that the PaNOSC Executive Board has had access to a draft Tinman report (the successor to Strawman report), however it is not clear whether this could be shared, however he will do try to share it with the WP7 (Roberto and Florian) at least.

**3. Collaboration with ExPaNDS**

Andy opened this point of the agenda by announcing that Knut is leaving and that he will be replaced by Patrick Fuhrmann (DESY) at ExPaNDS. He also said that ExPaNDS depends on us and we must really put effort to work togheter. WP leaders should be in each others mailing lists and invite/attend each others video conference meetigs as more synchronisation is required. 

Tobias said that this is already taking place and working for WP3. Jean-François explained that no equivalent to WP6 exists in ExPaNDS to which Andy replied that Patrick will be the contact for this.
Nicoletta asked whether we will have a common face-to-face Annual Meeting with ExPaNDS and Andy explained that htis is the plan. This meeting could take place in Prague and be organised by ELI. Rudolf then asked to move quickly to book it and organise it to ensure all key stakeholders can attend.

Jordi explained that he had a meeting with Sophie (ExPaNDS) and plans to have a follo-up every month. Furthermore, he has documented the outcome of the meeting in the comments of [issue #46](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46)


**4. Next Deliverables & Milestones**

Jordi very quickly explained that:
    1. We asked every WP leader whether their deliverables/milestones for end of May could be advanced to avoid a glut in May and we are still missing a response regarding *D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks*.
    2. Reminded that the milestone *MS8.3 pan-learning.org up and running* is due February 2020
    3. There is an area in PaNOSC to place supporting documents for Milestones and Internal Milestones that nobody is using. It would be highly appreciated if the apropriate WP leader could place the supporting documents there.

**5. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

As the meeting was running a bit delayed only these points were raised:
    * **Manolo and WP5** : Jordi will have a call with Manolo (currently at Berkeley) by the end of the month. Juncheng is organising a WP5 meeting in April and it was agreed that if WP5 and XFEL have the required funds they should go ahead and invite Manolo.
    * **EOSC Portal** : Jean-François said that there was a meeting the previous week about improving the portal and that input from WP leaders is requried for the services to be offered. Jean-François will send an email to WP2, WP3, WPR4 and WP5 leaders to check if his proposal for this is accurate.
    * **PaNOSC Portal** : Hans explained that originally we wanted to have our portal in March, however as of today Jamie (ILL) doesn't think this is a realistic target. We will need to either add more resources, reduce the scope, delay the target date or a mixture of the three. Andy agreed to reducing the scope, however he warned that a reduced scope should still be useful. Jean-François asked why do we have a March deadline, is there a good reason? to which Hans replied that :
        * to support the delivery showing remote analysis services
        * to have input from all facilities
    It was agreed however that hte deliverable of analysis services *is possible* without the portal, however clear scope and support from other RIs for Jamie is required.




Jordi reminded everyone that there are two folders for placing the supporting documents for *Milestones* and *Internal Milestones*:
* Milestones: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Milestones
* Internal Milestones: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Internal%20Milestones

Jordi asked WP Leaders to provide the supporting documentation/evidence for the milestones and internal milestones of their Work Packages. If for some reason the information must not be public (or there is not a report) just explain the situation (who to contact to obtain the private document) or provide a link towards the location of the documentation as appropriate in the appropiate folder in GitHub.
    
**2. M18 - Deliverables + Milestones that can be advanced**

Jordi asked WP leaders to confirm whether deliverables due M18 can be advanced or not and to what date.
* Andy said that D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated will be ready for end of April 2020
* Hans said that D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service could be ready for mid-April 2020
* Roberto was absent, but Dario will try to collect the information.

The current planning is therefore:

| Item | New date | Original Date | Comments |
| ---- | ------------- | -------- | -------- |
| D1.2b Mid-year Summary | end May | May 2020 | Cannot cover whole 1/2 year if submitted early |
| D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated | end April 2020 | May 2020 | |
| D3.1 API definition | end May | May 2020 | |
| D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service | mid-April | May 2020 | | 
| D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories | mid-May | May 2020 | |
| D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks | TBC |  |


**3. INFRAEOSC-03 & meeting 10/01/2020 in Brussels**

Andy explained that there is a call for proposals planned called INFRAEOSC 03, which could provide ~30M€ for clusters (this could mean ~3M€ per cluster). 

A discussion between clusters took place just before the meeting in Budapest and a letter was written asking cluster projects to be included in the call (with the aim to communicate and engage with scientific community leaders). This letter obtained a reply last week, saying that 
* cluster projects will be included in equality with other prosprective partners in the call, however it is still not clear what in practice the call will entitle. 
* in order to ensure that the project is manageable it is forecased that one institute could participate in the call in representation of the cluster projects (cluster projects are not a legal entity) and Andy understood that other partners of the cluster could participate as linked 3rd parties. 
* A meeting is scheduled 10th January 2020 in Brussels to further discuss and clarify INFRAEOSC 03.

After a brief discussion it was agreed that Jean-François and Rudolf will attend the meeting in Brussels and represent PaNOSC. There will be a PaNOSC Project Management Committee (PMC) meeting 15/01/2020 (the week after this meeting) and then information about the meeting and the call will be shared among all PaNOSC PMC members. Following the PMC, PaNOSC's Executive Board will be informed if the PMC agrees that PaNOSC should participate and be involved in this new call.

Andy will seek clarification about whether someone representing ExPaNDS could attend the meeting as part of the PaNOSC delegation to the meeting.

Jean-François asked wthether EGI is involved in this new call and Andy answered that yes, E-Infrastructures do participate. 
Jean-François also explained that his understanding is that the role for PaNOSC would be small, mostly about ensuring that the PaN user community is represented and that he doesn't expect PaNOSC playing a major role.

Andy explain that one of the two major points of the call is about connecting data with users, however we will know more after the meeting and once the call for proposals is published (a draft is still not available). 

It was also agreed, that if PaNOSC was to particpate in the call and be part of a proposal it will be important that not everyone participates in order to do not dilute too much the efforst between too many partners.

**4. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**

* WP1 Management
    * Jordi explained that he has done some work on the [KPIs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iivsvBrix4v6lmC2U3sOC6YEXFeY0JzXHTM9QQQZwiY/edit#gid=0) and [Risks](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP1%20Management/Risks/PaNOSC%20Risk%20Register.xlsx). 
    * For KPIs, it is important that WP Leaders propose KPIs (if not yet done) after talking with their WP collaborators, each one with a value before PaNOSC started, a value ~M12, and a target value at the end of the project (if a target is not possible, just justify why). It was clarified that KPIs can be per partner or aggregated at cluster level depending on what is the most useful.
    * For Risks, Jordi has followed the document provided by Tiziana and will contact *risk owners* to update the file
   
* WP2 Data Policy and stewardship
    * Andy explained that a meeting took place and what is to be covered by the data policy discussed. Some types of data can be grouped and treated the same (from the policy point of view). A new type of data (auxiliary data) would help cover the topics of sofware, environment, scripts, etc. to ensure enough is known about the data and the data analysis that took place, so the data analysis can be reproduced.
    * Rudolf will ciruclate a draft Data Policy by the end of the week (22nd December).

* WP3 Data Catalogue Services
    * Tobias explained that a meeting took place last Friday, with progress being achieved in the API. They are also registering to push data into OpenAIRE.
    * A meeting is planned for 11th and 12th February in Lund with ExPaNDS (it should be possible to join remotely) and the Indico page will be available soon.
    
* WP4 Data Analysis Services
    * Hans reported the bi-weekly meetings taking place (minutes available in GitHub)
    * The prototype portal with software due to be ready for March 2020, so it can be deployed in each facility (which may be tricky)
    
* WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-Ray Laboratory (VINYL)
    * Juncheng explained that he still needs the ESRF person that is not available. Jordi explained that he managed to contact Manolo and that early January a skype call will take place. Jordi asked Juncheng to share any specific question/topic that needs to be raised with Manolo.
    * Juncheng explained that work is ongoing on defining output data formats that are directly comparable with experimental data outputs.
    * A doodle is out for a WP5 face to face meeting probably taking place in April
    * Jean-François explained that the ILL is hiring someone for WP5 and that Miguel is the contact for this
    
* WP6 EOSC Integration
    * Jean-Francois said that he is expecting feedback from CERIC-ERIC on the data transfer solution provided by EGI
    * Regarding AAI, Christos is not answering emails (most probably on leave)
    * Andy enquried about the login system and Confluence to which Jean-Francois replied that this is in Christos hands as he is contacting Confluence supplier.
    
* WP7 Sustainability
    * Roberto was absent, but Dario reported that the scheduled WP7 meeting for today was cancelled so Roberto could have a call with Rupert Lueck about sustainability.
    
* WP8 User Training
    * Thomas was absent. Petra reported a coordination meeting with ExPaNDS 10/12/2019 and a joint face to face meeting for early 2020
    * A detailed plan for Task 8.1 is also being put together
    * Petra asked whether it would be possible to get hardware for the e-learning platform (or whether we should rely on the EOSC) to which Jordi, Rudolf and Andy replied that PaNOSC has 100K€ allocated for cloud computing resources and also that EGI has 300-400K€ allocated in order to provide services, so it should be possible. Andy asked approximate requirements, in order to furhter progress on this topic.
    
* WP9 Outreach and Communication
    * Nicoletta explaiend that there is a calendar where user meetings should be placed and urged all partners to add their user meeting events.
    * Nicoletta also reminded everyone to use the google calendar to place their PaNOSC planned meetings.
    * Nicoletta also explained tha SSHOC cluster project is organising a meeting 8th January to talk about joint actions for cluster communication and user engagement.
    * Nicoletta also reported ongoing work on the DOI video, news and interviews
    * Andy explained that a a mailing list is being set up t oshare info among the 35 projects participating in INFRAEOSC calls. Andy will ensure that Nicoletta can be a member of this mailing list.
    




