PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 23/01/2019
========================================================

Present
------

Jean-Francois (ILL), Petra (ESS),  Tomas (ELI), Lajos (ELI), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), 
Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC)

Minutes
------
1. _**Kick-off meeting report**_

    Jordi informed that he emailed the attendees thanking them for coming, asking them for feedback and for consent for GDPR
    purposes. So far he has received around 60% feedback regarding GDPR and plans to remind attendees next week.
    Andy explained that he will produce a report about the Kick-off as it can be useful at a later date.
    Regarding the EB meeting, Rudolf has circulated draft minutes to the attendees and hopes to have a final version ready end
    of next week.
  
2. _**Deliverable D1.1 Project Initiation Documentation**_

    There was a quick reminder that the deliverable is due 31st January and we are still missing information regarding WP3, WP7
    and WP8. Petra will push ESS WP leaders to get it in time and CERIC-ERIC will support Roberto to have this ready very soon.
    Andy has reviewed the document and added some comments. Jean-Francois has volunteered to also review the document, so this 
    way we will fulfil the Quality Review criteria for deliverables.

3. _**Job openings**_

    ESRF recruitment is ongoing, so is for CERIC (one post will be reopened due to lack of suitable candidates). ESS has hired
    and has more interviews ongoing. ELI.DC is hiring someone, however there are difficuties at the pilars to recruit. The ILL
    as hired one person with a second one arriving soon (plus two positions open)

    Nicoletta reminded everyone to tweet links to open positions with the #PaNOSC, so she can retweet them.

5. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi explained that he is awaiting WP leaders completing the D1.1 as he does not want to wait until
the last day to submit. Jordi will contact kick-off attendees regarding GDPR next week, also he has created a chronogram of 
milestones and deliverables in GitHub WP1/Plans. Finally an issue about risk management has been created.
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy explained that he is busy getting all Data Policies and talking to FAIR experts.
In particular he is interested in how institutes deal with requests to extend embargo periods.
Andy said that DOIs have a recurrent costs (~0.1€/year) to which JF Perrin replied that this is not the case for the ILL, so 
Andy and Jean-Francois will have a chat about this. 
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** -  Tobias was absent. Petra reported no news
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans was absent. Andy explained Hans is busy in a different proposal that has requested a 
letter of support from PaNOSC.
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Carsten was absent. Petra reported no news
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois explained that he is building the team (missing a name from CERIC - to which Roberto
volunteered for the work) and that he is planning a first telco in 2 weeks.
Jean-Francois is planning a pilot to access a service in the EOSC via AAI with Geant
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - Roberto explained that he requires a contact for the work package from each partner. Jean-Francois
volunteered from ILL and Jordi was suggested for the ESRF. Roberto highlighted that his is needed as soon as possible as there is 
plenty of work to do in the WP7
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was absent. Petra reported no news.
Andy asked whether it would be possible to have an e-Training or video about how to use the e-learning platform in order to create
content.
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta reported that the companies that answered the call for tender for the website
were all too expensive, so following CERIC procedures she started contact to local suppliers. She hopes to have a selected supplier
in two weeks. 
Nicoletta is going to create a Google calendar where we can add events and then share/display this via the website.

6. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#4](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/4) PaNOSC EB & PMC
  * This issue has been closed
* [#6](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/6) Kick-off meeting planning
  * This issue has been closed
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * We have decided to let this open until we receive feedback regarding the financing of EXPaNDS
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  * WIPO will be added to CA and agreement to do not circulate CA for signing until we obtain approval from legal officers at 
each partner site
* [#21](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/21) Answer EOSC-Hub questions
  * This issue has been closed
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * Issue to remain open as some mailing lists have not been populated with contacts.
* [#23](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/23) Financial Control for PaNOSC
  * This is now closed. Executive Board approved to have this kind of report roughtly once a year
* [#24](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/24) EB Agenda for Kick-off meeting
  * This issue has been closed
* [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management
  * Rudolf informed that the reputational risks were considered the most concerning by the Executive Board. It was approved that
Jordi will email each WP leader assigning them ownership of the risks related to their work package. Risks affecting multiple WPs
will be discussed next week.
    
6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

    Andy explained that there is a meeting in London next week for the ESFRI, also there is a meeting in February in Milan and 
he has been invited to talk about PaNOSC and open data to NFFA.
    Work is ongoing on two new requests where Hans (BOSSY) and Thomas (Paraydse) are involved

7. _**AOB**_
    
    Jean-Francois talked about Confluence and the email Jamie Hall sent. Andy reminded everyone that Tiziana said that EGI could
provide Confluence for free which could be handy for certain type of documents. Nicoletta to engage with Tiziana for this.
    Jean-Francois also talked about [DG RI reorganisation](https://sciencebusiness.net/framework-programmes/news/commission-plans-shake-its-big-research-department)
Attendees to the ESFRI meeting agreed to seek information about this and how could this affect PaNOSC or our project officer.

    
