PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 13/05/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS), Ornela(CERIC), Rudolf (ESRF), Petra (ESS), Roberto (CERIC), Carsten (XFEL) and Florian (ELI)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Slack **

Hans introduced the current status of the tool:
* free up to 10,000 messages. After that, the oldest cannot be retrieved
* we have now reached that level
* we have around 11 active users at the moment (52 registered)

And explained that we could apply for a [non-commercial license for Slack](https://slack.com/intl/fr-fr/help/articles/204368833-Slack-pour-les-associations?eu_nc=1) (85% discount) which it is not clear if we could get. A commercial version of Slack would cost 6.25€ per active user and month. 

Florian added that he thinks we are eligible and Jordi offered to help to put an application together for this. Thomas explained that the ESS has Slack and that by paying the main benefits are videoconferences and screen sharing.

It is agreed that PaNOSC seem to have the money to pay for this and that we will try to get a non-commercial license. If that's not possible we will bring the subject again to the PMC meeting for a final decision.

**2. Rules of Participation - *document feedback***

Ornela started by explaining the nature of the document and providing the link to our RoP feedback: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Ulpax0G11bheQ9a7RyC9SnAKPGJqKq9BZVc-O13ZuPM/edit?usp=sharing

Ornela said tha it could be good to provide feedback as well in the [EOSC-Hub Consultation Day (Monday 18th)](https://www.eosc-hub.eu/eosc-hub-week-2020/agenda) sessions.

Andy also said that the commission send the following info:
>>        

Therefore, the EC would like to invite you to complete the EOSC Phase One Implementation Assessment Survey that you can find at the following link:

https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/eosc-assessment-survey-eosc-projects-0

together with more information on the questionnaire and its full overview in pdf (to facilitate the answers’ preparation).

The deadline to submit the on-line questionnaire is Monday 18 May 2020.
<<

Andy asked whether someone from WP6 is attending this workshop and Jean-François said that he will share the agenda and check if anyone from his WP can attend.

**3. Annual Joint Meeting updates**

Florian explaiend that the basics of the meeting are now sorted adn that work as progressed into refining the program. A private indico page has been setup, which will be made public and open for registrations at a later date. The current schedule is:
* 1st day
  * 1/1 day open and user oriented with PaNOSC and ExPaNDS presenting what has been done for users so far and what will be done by the end of both projects
  * Executive Board private session
  * EOSC and FAIR presentations/ discussions
* 2nd day
  * WPs paralel sessions (1st Annual Meeting-style)
* 3rd day
  * Wrap-up session (private session)

Andy explained that Rupert has confirmed attendance and that we are looking at a final panelist.

Jean-François explained that Tiziana (EGI) would like to present INFRAEOSC-03 and what EGI is planning and Rudolf enquired whether it was INFRAEOSC-07 or 03, to which Jean-François confirmed that it was 03.

**4. Review meeting short update**

Jordi showed the current list of attendees and draft timeline for the Review Meeting in **https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0**

A brief discussion started on the time available per WP, people presenting demos, etc. which resulted in some updates to that document (people definetely not attending, reordering of demos, adding a demo for WP8), etc.

Jordi asked everyone to access the document and contribute there. He added that he would like to confirm the number (and nature) of attendees next Wednesday 20th May, so he can inform the Project Officer and Reviewer.

**5. Update from the WP Leaders**

Jordi explained that he is working on the Mid-Year Summary deliverable D1.2b Mid-year Summary ([link to contribute](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1X96DtpDITHmHwcHVNgRrcMSOZyjwb9C2/edit#heading=h.gjdgxs)) for which he needs WP leaders to contribute some content.

Jordi also asked all WP leaders that have a deliverable due end of May to share a version ready for submission ([using the right templates](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Logos%20and%20Templates/Templates) with Andy and himself by the 22nd May, so the deliverables can be reviewed before submission the last week of May.

Andy explained that WP2 members are busy working on the deliverable and that tomorrow there is a meeting to complete the final draft.

Tobias reported good progress and meeting with ExPaNDS to converge on the anthologies.

Hans reported ongoing work on the deliverable, which will be ready by next Friday 22nd May and confirmed that he received feedback from all sites.

Carsten reported a two-week's long spring that replaed the planned face to face workshop. He also explained that work on the next deliverable (due November 2020) has started and that he is trying to get a Jupyter Hub instance up with DESY.

Jean-François reported work on the performance tests that he wants to include in the deliverable.

Ornela explained that work is ongoing to finish the deliverable and also on the cost collection approach and what services to cover.

Thomas reported work with Florian and ELI for a workshop and integrating AAI with the e-learning platform. Florian added that the internal milestone is now completed (**NOTE TO FLORIAN** : can you link the document here in GitHub).

Nicoletta explained that she is trying to get PaNOSC showcased by the European Council with a poster, the ExPaNDS video is available and an interview with Hans to be published soon. She also reported work on a draft letter to journals.

Summary table of upcoming deliverables:
| Deliverable | New date | Original Date | 
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | 
| D1.5 Mid-year Summary | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D3.1 API definition | **end May** | *May 2020* | 
| D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service | **mid-May** | *May 2020* |  
| D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories | **mid-May** | *May 2020* | 
| D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks | **early May** | *May 2020* | 


**5. AOB**

Andy explained that he will submit feedback on the FAIR Data Maturity model.


















