PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 20/11/2019
========================================================


Present
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy(ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Florian (ELI-DC), Juncheng (XFEL), Jamie (ILL), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC),
Ornela (CERIC), Giuseppe (EGI), Petra (ESS) and Tobias(ESS).

Minutes
-------	


**1. Deliverables due end of November** 

Jordi went through the deliverable due for WP1, (which has been shared) and some areas that require WP leaders to edit and complete.

Jamie explained that the WP4 deliverable is well advanced and that he will share it tonight so it can be reviewed.

Juncheng had already shared the draft, which has been reviewed by Andy and Jordi. Juncheng and Nicoletta will be in touch to ensure
the document to submit uses the template available and follows the branding guidelines.

Andy explained that the internal document that leads to the milestone MS2.1 is ready. Jordi explained that MS1.2 is related to the 
deliverable, so it will be done very soon. Tobias explained that MS3.1 and MS3.2 will be ready by the end of the week.

Jordi reminded everyone that we need to use the templates availables for deliverables before submitting them and that each one is 
responsible for applying the branding guidelines. For milestones, it would be acceptable to apply the branding and templates after
the document is completed and the milestone has been ticked.

**2. Update of annual meeting in Trieste + Update from the WP Leaders**

Points 2 and 3 of the agenda were joined.

* WP1 Management
    * Jordi thanked everyone that contributed to the KPIs and also explained that received guidelines for risk assessment from the
Executive Board. He expects to work on these during December.

* WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship
    * Andy thanked Dario, Nicoletta and Ornela for the good organisation during the meeting in Trieste and said it was good to be 
everyone together working and that progress was made with data policies and data management plans.

* WP3 Data Catalog Services
    * Tobias explained that during hte annual meeting he had the best and most productive meeting for WP3, which is advancing well and
thanked the organisers of the annual event.

* WP4 Data Analysis Services
    * Hans was absent. Jamie explained  that during the annual conference work on the Portal (which has its own GitHub repository
-> **URL FOR THIS REQUIRED PLEASE**) progressed and also they did work on use cases.

* WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory
    * Juncheng explained that the joint session with WP8 was very productive and that it is now clear what should WP5 provide to WP8.
    * During the meeting it was also a good opportunity to meet each other in the WP
   
* WP6 EOSC Integration
    * Jean-Francois was absent. Giuseppe reported that the joint WP4-5-6 session went well and confirmed that EGI can provide resources so it is not a problem at all if any partner requires resources. 
    * It was then briefly discussed that due to the difficulties at ILL and ESRF to recruit System Administrators for WP6 we could maybe look into moving some effort from these two partners into EGI, who could offer these skills.

* WP7 Sustainibility
    * Roberto was absent. It was briefly discussed the Strawman Report and we commented it.

* WP8 Staff training in data stewardship
    * Thomas was absent. Petra asked to have a correspondent from ESRF and ILL for the WP8 that would be trained on how to use the
training portal. Petra also explained that the WP8 will start monthly meetings and a joint face to face meeting with WP5 is planned
for early 2020.

* WP9 Outreach & Communication
    * Nicoletta explained that she did an interview with Christos and Jean-Francois on UmbrellaId. She is also looking at reusing a
video on DOIs by the ILL (ILL branding to be replaced by PaNOSC branding), but for this will need the company that originally made
the video. Andy suggested Nicoletta to get in touch with the Comms person at SOLEIL (part of ExPaNDS) as they may want to participate
and could help dealing with the French company that edited the video.

**4. Issues https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues**
* It was requested to go to the point 5 instead.

**5. News from other proposals and events**
* FAIRsFAIR data repository certification
    * Andy said that we are awaiting feedback from FAIRsFAIR. 
* The [EOSC Stakeholders meeting](https://www.eoscsecretariat.eu/eosc-symposium) 24th to 28th November in Budapest
    * Andy said that he will represent PaNOSC and explained that there will be discussions about the  INFRAEOSC3 new proposal which
is being developed. As INFRAEOSC3 is in the early stages is difficult to assess whether it would be interesting and what involvement
would require from partners.
* Position Paper on EOSC by PaNOSC
    * Andy explained that he circulated this document and asked everyone to look at it and contribute by the end of the week.

Jordi asked whether there are any other upcoming events and Florian replied that he is attending and presenting PaNOSC in a national
event.


**5. AOB**
* Florian asked about the presentations in Indico from the Annual Meeting. Are these going to be always available? Rudolf said this
was a good point and it was decided to copy them into GitHub. 
(this was done on the same day by Nicoletta: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP9%20Outreach%20and%20communication/Presentations/1st%20Annual%20Meeting%202019




