PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 21/10/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jean-François (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC), Florian (ELI), Teodor (ELI), Tobias (ESS), Julie (ILL), Jacques (ILL), Sandor (XFEL), Carsten (XFEL) and Sophie (ExPaNDS)


Minutes
-------	

At the start of the meeting it was requested by Jordi to talk about the transfer of funds to partners. Hans confirmed that he shared information with Deike.

**1. Feedback on extraordinary PMC**

Jordi thanked everybody that participated in the meeting last week and also thanked Hans, who had sent a minor correction to the meetings.
Florian asked how the outcome of the meeting is going to be feedback to our Executive Board (EB) and Andy replied that each EB member is going to be asked what actions are undertaking in relation to the feedback. 


**2. WP4**

Hans is leaving XFEL and will not be able to continue leading the package. In the last Extraordinary PMC meeting the topic was raised and Hans confirmed that preliminary steps have been taken so Sandor can replace him as WP4 leader, thus having the WP4 leadership remaining within XFEL.

Sandor introduced himself and his experience working at XFEL, ELI, EMBL and ESRF. It was explained that a handover is already planned, with
* some time reserved for Sandor - Hans meetings (+ possibly the PaNOSC Coordinator)
* Sandor taking over with Hans shadowing him, giving feedback, support and complementary information as required

Tobias asked whether this movement would mean that Sandor stops contributing to WP3 and Sandor confirmed that this will not be the case. 
Andy asked for this decision to be formalised and to link-up with ExPaNDS for the annual meeting.

**3. ILL**

In the Extraodinary PMC meeting last week the ILL was not represented and there were concerns regarding ILL engagement in the project. Since then, Andy , our Coordinator has talked with ILL management and today Julie (ILL - european & grant office) and Jacques (IT) are representing ILL.

Jacques and Julie presented themselves and explained that the ILL are looking at some reorganisation which will lead to a new permanent team for PaNOSC (it is likely that most existing contributors to PaNOSC will continue).

Nicoletta and Jordi also explained that while ILL may not have spent much in WP9, the activity there doesn't stop and it may be a case of under reporting.

**4. ExPaNDS + PaNOSC Annual meeting**

Florian reported weekly meetings taking place to organise the event, with 87 peopl registered already (for both the symposium and WP sessions). A new announcement is planned for next week and a final version of the programme for the symposium has been done. Florian explained that all participants for the 1stday (symposium) are confirmed and that now focus is shifting to the 2nd and 3rd days of the event (WP sessions).

Florian also reminded all WP leaders to share with the management mailing list their joint presentations with ExPaNDS no later than 3rd November.

Jordi asked Florian and Sophie to circulate a reminder for this, so WP leaders at both ends are aware of the timescales.


**5. Pending Issues**


* [#61 Upload feedback to review report](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/61)

It was agreed that Jordi will draft an answer for the text box available in the EU portal when accepting the feedback received from our project officer.
Florian added that there are 15 days to provide feedback, i.e. until 1st November

* [#69 Review Report : Risk Management](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/69)

Jordi explained that he will be working with Sophie on this topic (both projects are similar and thus the risks and approaches should be similar). That will in turn generate some actions for WP leaders

* [#68 Review Report : WP1's Data Management Plan](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/68)

Jordi explained that he will be working with Sophie on this topic (both projects are similar and thus the DMPs are similar). 

* [#67 Review Report : EOSC Stakeholders communications](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/67)

Nicoletta explained that she produced a joint roadmap with ExPaNDS and that she will talk with Ornela (as WP7 does loads of EOSC liaision)

* [#66 Review Report : DOI links](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/66)

Sorted (DOI was misspelled). Item closed

* [#65 Review Report: Open Access publications](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/65)

Jordi explained that a quote from the published has been received and the ESRF will pay to make the publication open. Jordi reminded everyone that publications funded by PaNOSC MUST BE open access.

* [#64 Review Report: Dissemination plan review](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/64)

Nicoletta reported that she has already started working on this and has shared an excel document for feedback.

* [#63 Review Report: joint KPIs with ExPaNDS](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/63)

Jordi reported working with Sophie on this topic. He also encouraged WP leaders to look at this.

* [#62 Review Report: Engage the community](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/62)

Andy will be assigned this issue and will work with Nicoletta.

* [#59 PaNOSC & ExPaNDS Data Policies](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/59) 

Andy is working with Brian on this.

* [#53 Joint Annual meeting](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/53) - *see item 4*
* [#46 Cooperation with ExPaNDS](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/46) - *ongoing*
* [#43 Internal Milestones / deliverables](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43) - *see item 4*
* [#41 Update KPIs](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) - *see issue 63, so closed*
* [#25 Risk Management](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) - *issue 60, so closed*
* [#9 Observer status](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) 

It was agreed that providing use cases is part of this and that we should have a common format for this (FAIRsFAIR template could be modified for this).

**5. WP leaders updates**

Jordi reminded everyone that we have milestones and deliverables due end of November and that it would be good to have an advanced / final draft three weeks in advance so we can check it.

Jordi also reminded everyone to work with their ExPaNDS correspondents on the presentations and sharing them no later than 3rd November, so they can be reviewed by the PMC attendees.

* **WP9** : Nicoletta reported work on a brochure and poster. She is awaiting feedback from WP4,5 and 7. She also reported participation in the EGI Conference with "Achieving a federated PaN community in EOSC" and that the recording from the HD5 is avaialble and a new event mi-November from SSHOC (to be attended by Tobias).

Nicoletta was asked to add 2 presentations of T. Kluyver

* **WP8** : Thomas was absent and Florian reported that the internal milestone IMS8.5 (which is related to Milestone MS8.5) will be achieved, with Teodor adding that there is ongoing work with a few issues left to solve. Florian added that regular meetings for WP8 take place with focus on aligning views on the purpose of the platform with ExPaNDS adn work on the annual meeting presentation.

* **WP7** : Ornela was absent. The cost collection should be completed by the end of the year. Teodor asked each partner to complete teh excel template as soon as possible.

* **WP6** : Jean-François explained that MS6.2 should be done in November (registering the service ongoing). The progress on D6.4 is worrying and this deliverable will be late. ILL has resource issues and without a software developer this cannot be done (recruiting ongoing but lead times of several months before a person can start).

Jordi added that if we expect several months of delay (e.g. 8 months) then he would like to inform the project officer of this and the reasons behind.

* **WP5** : Carsten reported a very productive sprint and explained that the deliverable and milestone are on track.

* **WP4** and **WP3** : we were running late and both WP leaders left the meeting before they could share progress

* **WP2** : Andy reported work with ExPaNDS and that having the deliverable ready for the target date will be very tight.


**5. AOB**

Jordi clarified to Jacques and Julie that PMC meetings are every other week and Andy said that the EGI Symposium is coming up.















