PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 01/07/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Nicoletta (CERIC), Jean-François (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Florian (ELI-DC), Carsten (XFEL), Dario (CERIC), Sophie (ExPaNDS) and Jon (ESS)


Minutes
-------	

Florian asked to add two points:
 * to talk about the annual meeting organisation
 * to talk about WP8 - Tranining

Sophie also asked to add a point about onboarding presentation to EOSC

It was agreed to add these items to the end of the meeting.

**1. Financial information missing for Financial report**

Jordi explained that for the internal Financial Report is **still missing information from EGI and CERIC-ERIC**. He kindly reminded these two partners to provide the table with PMs, actual direct costs in €, spent in travel and spent in other costs per work package to him.

Jordi also pointed out that for XFEL, the information includes PMs but then when it comes to costs in € there is not WP breakdown. Hans said that he will contact his colleague working on this (Deike) to check out this issue.

Jordi also wished to remind everyone that the information received for this internal financial report is useful in order to compare our actual expenditure with our forecasts, so we can add some texts about deviations in the Periodic Report.

Florian then asked, what forecasts the EU uses for this and how our forecasts are built, to which Jordi replied that to his knowledge we do not have EU forecasts of expenditure for PaNOSC and that his forecasts are based upon the spreadsheet that we built for creating the budget proposal (which we have not modified so far). Jordi offered to share the file with everybody and explained that the file is not in GitHub (like everything else) because for certain WPs when a partner does a small contribution it is possible to infer the salary of a single person working on that item.

It was agreed that Jordi will share the file for the forecasts with all PMC representatives (XFEL already requested and received this file) once he has done some work to remove data not related to the partner receiving the information.

**2. Financial informaion availble in the EU Portal**

Jordi shared his screen and showed how some partners in the EU Portal are highlighted as having shared financial information (ESS, ILL, ELI, EGI) and having this information signed off (ESS, ELI, EGI, with ILL pending this step) while others do not.

Jordi also explained that is the first time that he uses the EU portal for this and at the moment cannot validate the data submitted. This may be because the system only allows to do so once all partners have submitted their information.

Jordi encouraged all partners to submit data and sign it off and explained that he will do the same at the ESRF.

**3. Review Report**

Jordi explained that Andy and Rudolf are on leave, however they have continued to work on the Review Report to submit (we only submitted an advanced draft).

Jordi explained that the document should have some additions though:
* A paragraph for each partner that has a 10% deviation somewhere (as our Project Officer pointed out)
* Something to highlight collaboration with other clusters

Thomas said that he would also like to add something related to WP8, as he felt during the Review Meeting that the work done on the WP has not been well understood.

Jordi agreed to find the link to the Google Doc and share it with Florian and Thomas so they can add their content.

**4. Paper from the EOSC executive on participation**

Ornela explained that there are some documentation shared by the EOSC Secretariat asking who (Research Infrastructures) wants to take part and be founding members of the EOSC Legal Entity in Brussels. This entity (an International non-for-profit organisation or AISBL in Belgian law)  will have for the first few years direct European Commission funding with the expectation that over time it will find an alternative funding model (maybe direct contributions from countries, or from the founding members?) that will allow it to 'stand on its own feet'.

Ornela shared https://www.cesnet.cz/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/Quo_vadis_EOSC.pdf
and said that starting in slide 13 there is basic info on the legal entity
https://www.eosc-portal.eu/news/establishing-eosc-legal-entity

A description of the partnership, from page 23, with KPIs expected (maybe the requirements for the institutions that will join the EOSC legal entity?) is also available through https://ec.europa.eu/info/sites/info/files/research_and_innovation/funding/documents/ec_rtd_he-partnership-open-science-cloud-eosc.pdf

Jordi asked Ornela to clarify that even when it is likely that in the long term the EOSC will be funded by EU member countries, the founding members are to be legal entities rather than countries to which Ornela said that that was correct.

Jon explaiend that ESS will join the EOSC as a founding member and that that would involve a significant amount of work, putting in place and extending on one hand a funding mechanism for the organisation and in the other a Minimum Viable Ecosystem.

Jean-François said that he feels like there is very few information available to which Jon replied that a roadmap is being finished and will go on public consultation from the end of the summer.

Jean-François also asked whether the new AISBL will replaced the Governance Board(GB) and Executive Board (EB) bodies of the EOSC to which Florian replied that he thinks so.

Jordi added that it would be positive for the EOSC the fact that there will be some staff hired that will be working 100% in making the EOSC a reality, making it sustainable and useful (as their salaries will depend on it).

Jon added that he believes that the more Photon and Neutron RIs that are early on within the EOSC the bigger will be the impact. ESS will be a founding member, however, it is not an operational facility yet and in order to support our communities we require more RIs at the EOSC which could end in turn meaning more services for our current user comunity.


**5. Pending milestone**

Jean-François reported being busy and not having the time to register services in the EOSC, however he said that he will start to work on this topic during the week with the aim of quickly be in a position to achieve the milestone.

Jordi asked Jean-François to let him know once this is done and to send him as well a short paragraph describing the work done for the EU Portal.

**6. Annual Meeting**

Florian reported regular calls/meetings taking place for organising the annual joint meeting between PaNOSC and ExPaNDS. He said that announcements to register will be shared very soon.

Florian explained that there will be two different parts of the meeting:
1. First half day symphosium on EOSC and FAIR which will be open to anyone, which will be availble face to face and online
2. A restricted event (Tuesday and Wednesday) reserved for PaNOSC and ExPaNDS contributors

Florian said that at the end of August it will be confirmed whether the event will be face to face (and online) or only online. He also explained that from now on work will focuso n setting the agenda for the Tuesday and Wednesday sessions.

Florian explained that there will be two announcements:
1. For the outside world, who could register for the first half day
2. For PaNOSC and ExPaNDS contributors, to register for the whole event (2 1/2 days)

Jean-François enquired about the agenda and Florian reported that for the first half day we will have  speakers and panellists selected, with the high level sessions designed (missing the detail).

Jean-François said that for WPs it will be nice to know how much time each will have and Florian said that this is open to discussion.

It was agreed that Florian and Sophie will send emails in order to plan the WP specific and cross-WP sessions for Tuesday and Wednesday to ExPaNDS and PaNOSC contributors.

**7. Work Package 8**

Florian reported that he will be contacting people regarding the training platform. It is required now to know what training (per WP) will go into the training platform and who will attend workshops in order to create content.


**8. Onboarding presentations to EOSC**

Sophie reported taht Diego Scardaci (EGI) is making presentations and that we can participate. The dates are either 15th or 17th July and that a poll will be shared to select the most suitable date (Sophie will send more details by email).

Sophie also clarified that the presentation of Diego will be done in name of ExPaNDS, not EGI.

**9. AOB**

Florian explained that recruitment of a senior technical person at ELI is almost completed and that he expects the contract to be signed soon so the candidate can start on 1st of August. This new person will be more technical than Florian and be able to complement Florian's work for PaNOSC.

Jordi ending the meeting reminding everyone of the required financial information and that he expects that by the next PMC meeting (planned for 15th July) everything shoudl have been submitted and approved in the EU Portal.















