PaNOSC WP 7 meeting - 22/04/2020
=======================================================================
Present:
-------
Jean-François (ILL), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), Florian (ELI), Jordi (ESRF), Andy (ESRF)
Agenda:
1.	D 7.1 - Photon and Neutron EOSC Stakeholder Feedback: integration of comments. The deliverable is available here: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/D%207.1%20-%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20EOSC%20Stakeholder%20Feedbacks/PaNOSC_deliverable_7.1_VR4.pdf
2.	Task 7.2 - Metrics and cost for the Photon and Neutron community EOSC. Discussion of the approach. The template is available here: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Task%207.2%20Metrics%20and%20cost%20for%20the%20Photon%20and%20Neutron%20community%20EOSC/metrics%20and%20cost%20model_V2.xlsx
3.	Feedback to the EOSC RoP https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Work%20Packages/WP7%20Sustainability/Opinions%20and%20feedback%20to%20EOSC%20documents/EOSC%20Rules%20of%20participation

Minutes:
1.	D 7.1 - Photon and Neutron EOSC Stakeholder Feedback
Three changes have been proposed:
- review by Jordi Bodere Sempere and Andrew Goetz (Project Coordinator), page 2
- remove “the system we chose”, page 15
- link note 11 with the text, page 16
After these changes are made, the deliverable will be sent to the project coordinator for a final revision.

2.	Task 7.2 - Metrics and cost for the Photon and Neutron community EOSC
Florian volunteered to work on the costs model, once costs will be identified by all the facilities.
It has been suggested to define, for every service listed in the template to collect the costs, what is included and the methodology used to calculate/report them.
It was also discussed that the scope of the cost collection should be clearly defined, as partners may have a different view. 

3.	Feedback to the EOSC RoP 
A first draft  of comments is available here. The document will be present during the next PMC meeting, 29 April 2020 and the contribution of every WP leader will be required within the next WP 7 meeting, 6 May 2020 from 11.00 to 12.00.

ACTIONS
- Correct D7.1 and send it to the coordinator for comments;
- Send the draft of comments on the RoP to the coordinator, collect any comment by WP leaders
- Proposal on the scope of task 7.2, to be discussed during next meeting
