PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 17/07/2019
=======================================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Knut (ExPANDs), Florian (ELI-DC),
Roberto (CERIC-ERIC)


Minutes
-------

1. **Annual Meeting in Trieste**

Rudolf said that he would like to advance as much as possible in the agenda for the annual conference, the speakers and list of people
to invite in order to avoid having to rush in September
Nicoleta explained that Dario is on leave until the begining of August.
There was agreement on the 4th and 5th November dates for the annual conference, however still there isn't a clear idea on whether 
there will be some events in the following days (for WP work or working with other cluster projects).
Jordi will create a google doc **(link here)** so everyone can collaborate on the list of invitees. Initial suggestions for whom to 
invite were representatives of:
* FAIRsFAIR
* EOSC-Hub
* EOSC Board
* OpenAIR
* EUdat
* Geant
* User representatives (Andy pointed out that users from CERIC-ERIC may be easier to obtain)
Florian also said that it would be nice if some social activity would take place during the annual conference

2. **Internal new milestones/deliverables suggestion**

Andy shared the partial list of proposed internal milestones **(see issue #43)** which was briefly discussed.
Tobias said that WP3 will be in a position to provide a list of internal milestones by 19th September
It was then agreed that Jordi will email each WP leader to ask them to talk internally within their WP about milestones that are
useful to follow-up work and that these must be ready by 19th September. The final list of collected milestones will be then used
by WP1 to control progress on the project and each individual WP.
Jean-Francois pointed out that it that to start it would be good if representatives from each partners will be participating 
in all WP meetings.

**OFF-TOPIC** : 
    Andy wanted to share news about our new Project Officer: Rene Martins, who has already been invited to our
annual conference.
    Andy also raised the point about the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between PaNOSC and ExPaNDS
