PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 13/02/2019
========================================================

Present
------
Jean-Francois (ILL), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF),  Florian (ELI-DC), Robert (euXFEL), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), 
Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela(CERIC-ERIC)


Minutes
------
1. _**Issue #27: Details for our First Annual Meeting**_

The proposed date by CERIC-ERIC has been week 44 (28th October - 1st November), however the 1st of November is bank holiday in
many countries and the suggested date has changes to either week 43 or 45. 
Rudolf pointed out that the ESRF SAC meeting takes place during week 43, therefore week 45 would be more suitable.
It was agreed that the Chair of the Executive Board will notify by email the suggested date and seek feedback before the next
PMC meeting. 


2. _**Update on Deliverable "D9.3 PaNOSC's respository for internal communication" and Confluence due end of February**_

Nicoletta and Jordi had a conference call with Yannick (EGI). They got the impression that Confluence is a powerful tool, that 
allows a wiki-like structure with templates and processes hanging from there. Yannick requested a technical specification for the
structure and permissions required and based on that he may request some PMs in order to manage the confluence area for us.

Jordi explained that from his point of view we need only a place where to place the few confidential documents that we will handle,
public documents can go to GitHub and for many people to work at the same time on the same document we have Google docs.
Nicoletta suggested to provide a CERIC-ERIC tool that allows to upload/download documents in a folder structure with tailored
permissions.
Jean-Francois found incredible the suggestion to request PMs to administer Confluence, something apparently quite straight forward.
Andy said it can be confusing using similar tools (GitHub and Confluence) for documentation and that all documentatation should be
in a single place (all in GitHub or all in Confluence).
Jean-Francois will talk with Jamie (ILL) about Confluence and whether Jamie wants to take the responsibility for setting Confluence
up, administering it and migrating all data.

3. _**Signing of Consortium Agreement**_

Andy reported that everyone is happy with WIPO and that we will send the copies for signing. Andy requested information abotu who
would be the best person at each partner to receive the CA for siging:
CERIC-ERIC: Jana
euXFEL: Daike
ELI: Florian
ILL: Jean-Francois
ESS: Margaret
EGI: Celine & Yannick


4. _**Update from the WP Leaders**_

*    **WP1 Management** - Jordi reported his attendance to ESCAPE's Kick-off meeting in Annecy. He said that for many work packages
the first deliverable is a detailed plan for the WP and due in month 6 to 12. They have 31 partners and it seems to be less clear
how they are going to work together. Jordi also explain that D1.1 had to be resubmitted as it is Public and therefore requires the
EU flag and funding notice.
*    **WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship** - Andy reported that the mailing list is completed and a call will take place next week.
The plan for the WP is to analyse data policies and compare them with FAIRsFAIR 27 "fair requirements/objectives", so we can 
establish how fair we are.
*    **WP3 Data Catalog Services** - Tobias was absent. No news
*    **WP4 Data Analysis Services** - Hans was absent. Robert reported that work on the 1st deliverable has started. Also the 
ILL has done work on a HDFviewer
*    **WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** - Hans was absent. Robert reported that a new colleague arrives Friday. Also a 
contributor from CERIC-ERIC is missing
*    **WP6 EOSC Integration** - Jean-Francois reported that FTS presentation will take place soon and then the solution will be tested.
Jordi explained that during ESCAPE's kick-off he talked with Patrick (DESY) who explained him that he preferred FTS to Globus. 
*    **WP7 Sustainibility** - Roberto reported that he is missing a contributor from XFEL. Robert said he will be the contact person.
Roberto started wot work in the stakeholder database, the first stakeholders being obtained from the EOSC stakeholder lists
*    **WP8 Staff training in data stewardship** - Thomas was absent. No news
*    **WP9 Outreach & Communication** - Nicoletta referred to point 2 in the agenda. More communication activities will follow 
when we have more to report

5. _**Job openings**_

Andy reported that two posts are open at the ESRF (sysadmin and web developer).
Jean-Francois will have interviews beginning of march
Florian explained that the budget distribution within ELI is done, which will help for recruitment and resource allocation. A job will
open at ELI-DC beginning of March and another at ELI-Beamlines
At CERIC-ERIC the selection of candiates is completed and 1FTE is now confirmed to work in WP3


6. _**Review of existing issues**_: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues

    Issues were worked through and updated accordingly. In particular
* [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
  * We have decided to let this open until we receive formal confirmation regarding the financing of EXPaNDS
* [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
  Already talked about it in #3
* [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
  * Issue to remain open, the way we have to manage mailing lists isnot ideal.
* [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management
  * Jordi has not done it since last week, so he will ask WP leaders to decide who owns the risk that affects only two WPs.
* [#26](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/26) Software Licensing
  * We need to find a recommended default license for new developments. 
* [#27](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/27) Annual meeting
  * Already talked about it in #1
    
6. _**News from other proposals and events**_

Andy is attending a EOSC-Hub meeting in Prague in April. There wil also be a LEAPS meeting in April and a EUROFORUM meeting in
Munich during April. 
The question of whether we will organise code camps (e.g. for WP4) was raised. It looks like yes, however none is planned yet

7. _**AOB**_

It was agreed that PMC meetings will move from every week to every fortnight, therefore there won't be a PMC meeting next week 
(20/02/2019) but the one after ( 27/02/2019)

    
