PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 29/01/2019
========================================================

Agenda
------

1. Feedback from ESFRI meeting in London

2. Deliverable "D9.3 PaNOSC's respository for internal communication" due end of February

3. Job openings

4. Update from the WP Leaders - update on resources assigned + hiring + work plans
	*    WP1 Management
	*    WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship
	*    WP3 Data Catalog Services
	*    WP4 Data Analysis Services
	*    WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory
	*    WP6 EOSC Integration
	*    WP7 Sustainibility
	*    WP8 Staff training in data stewardship
	*    WP9 Outreach &Communication

5. Review any other existing issues: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
	1. [#9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Observer status
	2. [#16](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/16) Draft Consortium Agreement
	3. [#22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists
	4. [#25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Risk Management
        5. [#26](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/26) Software licensing

6. News from other proposals and events

7. AOB
	*   Date and location of new Annual Meeting
