PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 19/06/2019
========================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Axel (ESRF) Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Ornela (CERIC-ERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Hans (XFEL),
Jesper (ESS), Knut (ExPaNDS), Florian (ELI-DC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC)

Minutes
-------

1. Upcoming Deliverables and milestones :

	* D9.1 PaNOSC's Communication and Dissemination Plan

	Dario reported that Nicoletta has been unavailable for the last three weeks but she is due to come back on Monday to work
	on the deliverable that is due at the end of the month.
	Andy asked what each partner is doing internally to disseminate PaNOSC as this can be interesting and be put into the plans.
	This created a fruitful discussion about what we can do in dissemination and how all should work togehter for this, not only
	the WP9 leader. The discussion involved Andy, Jean-Francois, Jordi, Florian and Knut among others and covered:
	  *    Attending/organising conferences and workshops
	  *    Participation in RDA and also in ExPaNDS
	  *    Linking up with stakeholders identified as part of WP7
	It was agreed that a new document in Google Docs should be made available, so everyone can contribute their ideas.
	The URL for such document is: https://drive.google.com/open?id=1-GYYqW9kXDBiZBOghziDVFfAQfycbj1u

**Out of the agenda**: Andy introduced Knut, Coordinator of ExPaNDS.
Knut explained that ExPaNDS starts in September and that for now they are just getting ready. Knut said that coordinating 
dissemination plans looks like a good idea. He explained the work on a MoU between ExPaNDS and PaNOSC is ongoing and hopes to share next week a proposal document.

2. Internal new milestones/deliverables suggestion

	Andy explained that he has a draft version of possible internal milestones/deliverables but this is not yet ready to share.
	Jordi suggested everyone to collaborate with issue 43: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/43
	Hans asked how detailed the plan will become with these new internal deliverables/milestones and Andy answered that there
	should be something in the plan at least every six months. We may not want internal deliverables/milestones every month 
	but if nothing can be reported in a year we are doing something wrong.

3. Review of existing issues: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
	
	Jordi reported that he closed issue [29](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/29) as this was submitted.
	Jordi also said that none of the deliverables submitted have moved to the Accepted status, but this could be due to 
	the change of Project Officer taking place.
	
	[ 9](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/9) Regarding observers Knut and Andy agreed that it would be positive if
	WP leaders and Coordinator observe each others. The easiest way of achieving this would be having WP leaders invited to
	ExPaNDS kick-off meeting, having each other Coordinator attending their respective PMC meetings and having WP leaders 
	observing the WP specific conf. calls of each project.
	Andy highlighted the need of having active observers rather than many.
	Knut asked about 3rd parties (DESY) and how to introduce them as observers
	Jean-Francois said that EGI does not regularly attend PMCs, but does attend the WP6 meetings.
	Jordi asked if we plan to do something about non-ExPaNDS observers to which Rudolf explained that he expects other cluster
	projects to be engaged in a year's time (it is now a bit too early).

	Jean-Francois talked as well about common taks among cluster projects. Some tasks will be pretty much identical 
	(e.g. sustainability) and that if we create a list of tasks that we think are common among the clusters we could work
	with them on these.
	Knut said that the cluster projects in his call do this, however that is not a requirement for PaNOSC's call.
	Hans asked whether the common tasks are only for ExPaNDS or any other cluster project and it was clarified that for any.

	[22](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/22) Mailing lists: again the setup is not ideal. As we add more people
	to the mailing lists this could become a bigger issue but for now it is OK. Jordi recommended to close the issue as 
	no one is tasked with changing the situation. Andy said that maybe he could delegate this to someone.

	[25](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/25) Jordi contacted all WP leaders for updates on the risks, however
	only Jean-Francois replied. Jordi asked all WP leaders to read the email and reflect on the risks.

	[27](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/27) Annual Meeting: we need urgently an agenda and the site for
	registrations. It was agreed that CERIC-ERIC will provide a first draft of the agenda by 21/06/2019 and that the idea
	would be to open for registrations at the end of next week (28/06). In order to advance with this there will be a 
	extraordinary PMC meeting next Wednesday 26th June at 14:00h (the WP2 call scheduled for the same date and time will be
	rescheduled).

	The discussion then move to who to invite. It was proposed that a representative from each other cluster project should
	be invited and maybe someone from the EOSC. From the EOSC many bodies the Executive Board looked like the best to invite.
	Rudolf suggested inviting all the members of the EOSC EB (it is not a very big body).

	[36](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/36) To remain open, we still have time for this.

	[41](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/41) There is agreement that we need more refined KPIs. 
	Jordi to create a Google doc or similar to deal where all WP leaders can suggest KPIs. The document is available on:
	https://drive.google.com/open?id=1iivsvBrix4v6lmC2U3sOC6YEXFeY0JzXHTM9QQQZwiY
	
4. HDF5 Workshop 
	
	Andy announced that the HDF5 group proposed and is having a conference in September which will be hosted at the ESRF.
	This event sort of overlaps witt the last LEAPS meeting. Andy will share more information about this conference shortly.

5. Update from the WP Leaders - update on resources assigned + hiring + work plans
	*    WP1 Management - Jordi has been working on the Financial Reporting templates that will be shared in September. The 
	idea is to complete the report
	*    WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship - Andy reported a Data Policy talk at ESRF. Slides will be available soon
	*    WP3 Data Catalog Services - Tobias was absent. No news
	*    WP4 Data Analysis Services - Hans reported WP kick-off meeting next week. Also. Robert Rosca went to a Jupyter
	meeting and will be able to share some technical notes from the trip.
	*    WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory - Carsten and Manolo absent. Roberto said a CERIC-ERIC contact is now in the
	mailing list.
	*    WP6 EOSC integration - Jean-Francois said that the last meeting attendance was lower than previously and that we
	require more engagement from all partners. He also explained that EGI published one job offer for SysAdmin for ILL and that
	if others are interested in advertising their job offers for SysAdmins please contact him.
	*    WP7 Sustainibility - Roberto explained that the 1st conf call for WP7 took place with minutes available soon. In 
	another couple of weeks a follow-up meeting focusing in cost models will take place.
	*    WP8 Staff training in data stewardship - Thomas as absent. No news
	*    WP9 Outreach &Communication - Nicoletta was absent. Ornela said that if she is not able to be back on Monday 
	CERIC-ERIC will find a temporary substitute.
	Andy raised the issue of the panosc website being slow and asked whether this could be looked at.

At this point we ran out of time so in

8. AOB

	Andy said that he is worried for the lack of engagement of some WP leaders. We need to think about this and increase the 
	activity. This issue has already being brought up to the EB meeting and it would be a shame if we need to raise it again
	without having achieved extra commitment from all partners.
