# Participants

* Peter, DTU/ESS
* Linda, UCPH/ESS
* Jesper, ESS
* Thomas, ESS

# Minutes

## Actions from last meeting


## Future WP8 course (the course for making courses)

Linda would like to have clarified what a future course should cover. Proposal is to train people how to organize a course and 
select the right tools for the aim of the course.



# Actions
## From [2019-05-08](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/2019-05-08_ESS_Weekly.md)

- [ ] Develop requirement document for Jupyter integration in e-learning platform. Jesper to initiate that in a shared document.
- [ ] How will budget allocated for videos in PaNOSC be managed? Thomas to raise the question at PMB.    
- [x] Jesper: Define milestones deadlines and due dates for stories. May 8, 2019
- [ ] Thomas: Invite other to VC in to our weekly meetings on WP8 email list and make them aware of the minutes.
- [x] Thomas: ask Jordi to add Mads to Wp5 list.
- [x] Jesper: Upload minutes from last meeting.
- [ ] Thomas: Bring up the question about the google calendar at next PMB meeting
- [x] Peter: Provide snippet for how to embed calendar.
        This [calendar snippet](snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html) should be visible via [this link](http://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP8%20User%20Training/MeetingMinutes/snippets/PaNOSC-Calendar.html)



