PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 9/5/2019
========================================================

Present
-------

Andy (ESRF), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Nicoletta (CERIC-ERIC), Roberto (CERIC-ERIC), Dario (CERIC-ERIC), Thomas (ESS)

Minutes
-------

1. **Upcoming Deliverables (D1.2 Mid-year summary, D1.4 DMP, D9.2 PaNOSC's website, D9.1 Comm & dissemination plan)**

	*D1.2* - Andy explained that D1.2 needs short descriptions of progress on almost ALL work packages except WP1 and WP4. 

	**ACTION - WP leaders for WP2, WP3, WP5, WP6, WP7, WP8, WP9**

	To update the paragraphs about the WPs in the document D1.2 on the Google drive

	*D1.4* - Andy explained Jordi and him have been editing this document and will soon ask for
	a review. As usual the document is on Google drive.

	*D9.2* - Nicoletta did a walkthrough of the web site. She needs input for a number of topics from the WP leaders. An email
	has been sent out and github issue [#35](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues/35) updated. Nicoletta asked who
	should be editors. Andy said all the WP leaders but Nicoletta thought this was too many. THere is a risk of the
	website having too many styles. Andy would like to have editors with a limited role i.e. who only edit their pages
	and do not have administrator rights for the whole website. Nicoletta will find out if this is possible with Wordpress.
	
2. Upcoming Tasks & Milestones

	*T2.1 Lessons learned and FAIR definitions* - this task will finish end of May 2019. 
	
	**ACTION - All partners to add their input to the document by CERIC.**

	*T2.2 Update PaNOSC data policy framework* - the task to start writing the PaNOSC Data Policy framework is supposed to start 1 May 2019. ESS is leading this task and ESRF is in charge of the associated milestone MS6 due in November 2019. Andy said ESS should contact him to see how to proceed.

	**ACTION - ESS to start working on writing updated Data Policy Framework**

	*T2.3 Create Guidelines* - this task runs is ongoing and will end in November 2020.

	*T3.1 Develop common API* - this task is ongoing and will end in May 2021.

	*MS5.1 Simulation codes in PaNdata software catalog* - Carsten was not present but he sent a document which demonstrates the MS has been achieved. Good news!
	
	*MS7.1 Stakeholders Database* - this milestone is due end of May 2019. Roberto said he has a version ready which he would like to share to get additions from all sites.

	**ACTION - Roberto to upload Stakeholder list to Github and create an issue asking for comments**

	*MS8.1 Joint WP4 and WP8 work plan* - the milestone is due end of May. Thomas said discussions were ongoing ...

	*MS8.2 Joint WP5 and WP8 work pla* - the milestone is due end of May 2019. Thomas reported that discussions had not started due to the lack of WP5 work package leader.

	**ACTION - WP5 (Carsten?) to contact WP8 (Thomas) asap**

	*MS9.1 Website ready* - this is ongoing. Nicoletta needs feedback on contents from ALL WP leaders (see above).

	**ACTION - ALL WP leaders to comment on website contents**

3. Feedback from 2nd Executive Meeting

	Andy reported on the recommendations made by the Executive Board at their video meeting on 30 April. The recommendations are:

	1.	The EB requests all WPs to provide intermediate milestones to allow WP1 to follow progress or lack of it.
	2.	The EB requests partners who are in charge of WPs and where the WP leader is not available (WP5, WP7) to formally provide an action plan.
	3.	The EB requests the PaNOSC PMC to develop a plan how to engage with users and others projects of the PaNOSC and EOSC services.
	4.	The EB requests increased involvement in the PaNOSC PMC and WP follow-up of risks, milestones, tasks, etc. by all partners.
	5.	The EB requests the PaNOSC PMC to liaise with FAIRsFAIR as the preferred FAIR expert.
	6.	The EB wishes to have the next EB meeting during the 2nd day of the annual meeting, i.e. on 22nd October, from 16:00 to 18:00, without any overlap with other activities during the annual meeting. 

	The main issue was the need for more engagement by participants. All present agreed that this is an issue for a number of key players who are over committed. 
	
	* ACTION - All WP leaders are strongly encouraged to make time in their agendas to spend on PaNOSC and to attend the management meetings on a regular basis.**

4. Update from the WP Leaders - update on resources assigned + hiring + work plans
	*    WP1 Management - JB away, working on D1.2 and D1.4
	*    WP2 Data Policy and Stewardship - Andy needs to organise a meeting
	*    WP3 Data Catalog Services - no news
	*    WP4 Data Analysis Services - Hans sent minutes of a meeting held during the EGI-week, fruitful discussions were held at EGI-week
	*    WP5 Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory - OASYS school to kickoff on 13-15 May; Carsten is getting involved again
	*    WP6 EOSC Integration - no news
	*    WP7 Sustainibility - Roberto gave update on Stakeholders list
	*    WP8 Staff training in data stewardship - Thomas said there were discussion with WP4 but not WP5 (yet)
	*    WP9 Outreach &Communication - see above

5. Review any other existing issues: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/issues
	
	THere was no time to go through the issues list.

6. Job openings and hirings

	ESRF - Andy mentioned that the sys admin job has to be opened again due to the chosen candidate refusing the offer; there is also an opening for a web developer.
	CERIC-ERIC - has hired all staff now.

7. News from other proposals and events - ExPANDS, EOSCEnhance, FAIRsFAIR, First OASYS School

	Andy mentioned he will be meeting ExPANDS at the LEAPS-IT meeting next week in PSI. He will present an update on PaNOSC and  discuss how PaNSOC and ExPANDS should work together.

8. AOB

	None