PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - Review Meeting preparation - 22/04/2020
============================================================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL),  Nicoletta (CERIC),  Jean-François (ILL), Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS), Ornela(CERIC), Carsten (WP7 former leader)


Minutes
-------	

**1. List of invited attendees for the meeting ([see Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0))** 

It has been agreed that for the Review Meeting we will have the WP leaders:
    1. Jordi
    2. Andy
    3. Tobias
    4. Hans
    5. Juncheng
    6. Jean-François
    7. Ornela
    8. Thomas
    9. Nicoletta
Plus a representative from ELI, EGI and ExPaNDS
    10. Florian (ELI)
    11. Giuseppe (EGI + supporting WP6)
    12. Patrick Furhman(ExPaNDS)
We will also invite Carsten to support WP5
    13. Carsten
And if possible a representative from our Executive Board
    14. Thomas Tschentscher
Just for the WP4 demos there may be for a while extra attendees and we are considering whether to invite someone representing our users.

The final list is in the ([Google spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1eDqc0xxNJBLl7xgu5iIYDnvbATENcIV7-Wr7vlP5Nf0/edit#gid=0))


**2. Review Meeting dates - *Tuesday 16th June* + Rehearsal date ([doodle](https://doodle.com/poll/hsubfh5iuyk45iub))**

After a brief discussion, checking the availability of everyone, there was agreement on planning the rehearsal for Friday 5th June during the afternoon.

**3. Summary for publication - *is this required?***

Ornela explained that this text (~1000 words) is required, appears at the very end of the submission process for the review report, it is public and we should prepare it in advance.

Jordi added this to the end of the [editable document for the Review Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit?dls=true)

**4. Review Report template - *[editable version for us here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1S0Urn-BLYVrPDjUxCEpKYHMlK3jIHEhC/edit?dls=true)***

Jordi explained that the document is now available and that our target should be to have it completed by the end of May, to which everyone agreed. It was also agreed to keep monitoring progress of this document every other week.

**5. Review Meeting content & structure**
Andy suggested a possible structure that was approved unanimously:
* Morning
  * A first short section (up to one hour) to introduce the project 
  * A second longer section (around 2 hours) for the demos that we want to do
    * This will include introductions to demos / WP as appropriate
* Afternoon
  * A third section for presentations (focusing on WPs that cannot do demos)
  * A final section to let some time for interactions with the PO & Reviewer (~ 2 hours)

Jordi & Andy will propose this schedule to the PO & Reviewer and share the feedback obtained.

Jean-François pointed out that demos will be very short and that he would like some time to present the WP and introduce the work done.

Carsten said that he would like WP5 demo to take place before WP4 demo, as this can represent the workflow better. Hans answered that he will engage with Juncheng and Carsten for the demos and how best to show the workflow.

Hans shared the WP4 plan for demos: https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP4%20Data%20analysis%20services/Meetings/2020-06-review-meeting/session-wp4.rst

Andy said that after attending several WP meeting he thinks it would be good to have demos focusing on Serial Crystallography.

Thomas explained that for WP8 he could show the training platform and some of its features.

For WP6 Jean-François said that he would demo a data transfer (CERIC -> Cesnet) using OneData and authenticating via UmbrellaId (covering data transfer and AAI). Thomas and Hans then talked about adding AAI to more things (which is easy for websites, but data access, etc. is more complicated). Jean-François also added that it should be possible to show VISA working at the ILL.

Tobias was absent but Andy reported that the idea is to demo the Search API. Hans added that Jakub wants to demo searching for data, obtaining a dataset and firing up a notebook.

Andy explained that for WP2 instead of a demo he will introduce and present the data policy.

Nicoletta explained that she will summarise the highlights and visuals used in WP9 so far. She also stated that if PaNOSC does something COVID-19 related she will communicate about it. Andy suggested explaining how having EOSC and PaNOSC as a success could make an impact into research for the next pandemic.

Ornela said that she will focus on explaining what has been done so far and existing contacts with EOSC Sustainability Working Group for WP7

Jordi explained that for WP1 he will present the actions that are taking place in order to manage the project and ensure we all work well together (and with ExPaNDS). Jordi reminded everyone to complete the Risks and KPIs as Jordi will say that this is something WP1 has taken care of (WP leaders can in their presentations show their KPIs).


**6. Planning the review meeting**

All participants agreed on these actions and deadlines:

| item to prepare | info | dates |
| --------------- | ---- | ---- |
| Prepare demos | | from now until rehearsal date (5th June) |
| Prepare presentations | *using KPIs?* | from now until rehearsal date (5th June) | 
| Prepare draft M18 Review Report | *and send it to PO/Reviewer* | from now until 1st June |
| Submitting May deliverables | | until end of May the latest |
| Requesting financial info | *up to end of May*| 1st June |
| Rehearsal | | 5th June, all afternoon|
| **Review meeting** | | 16th June |
| Obtain Financial info | | latest 20th June |
| Complete M18 Review Report | | 10th July |
| Submit M18 Review Report | | 31st July |




