PaNOSC Project Management Committee meeting - 01/04/2020
========================================================


Attendees
-------
Florian (ELI-DC), Andy (ESRF), Rudolf (ESRF), Jordi (ESRF), Hans (XFEL), Jonathan(ESS), Nicoletta (CERIC), Dario(CERIC), Jean-Francois (ILL), Tobias (ESS), Thomas (ESS), Petra (ESS), Sophie (ExPaNDS) and Ornela(CERIC)


Minutes
-------	

**1. Update on Milestone 8.3 pan-learning.org** 

Thomas explained that [pan-learning.org](https://pan-learning.org/) is now available and that has been used successfully. A few tweaks to the site will be done in the future (in particular linking it to som High Performance Computing centres), but the milestone can be considered as done. Thomas will send shortly a paragraph for the EU Portal so Jordi can tick the milestone.

NOTE: Thomas did send the info to Jordi straight after the meeting and the milestone is now ticked in the EU Portal. It would be positive to add something else on https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/tree/master/Submitted%20Milestones


**2. Review meeting updates + review report writing** 

Andy explained that conversations with our Project Officer and also with the Invited Reviewer have helped us to define more concrete dates for the remote one day Review Meeting. We suggested the 2nd half of June, form these dates our PO prefers 15th to 19th and the reviewer is not available Mondays or Thursdays. This lets us Tuesday 16th June, Wednesday 17th or Friday 19th.

Jean-Francois explained that he is not available Wednesday 17th or Thursday 18th June, therefore **we will propose either Tuesday 16th June or Friday 19th June**, the two dates for which no one has signaled any impediments.

Regarding a review report that we will need to provide, a short exchange took place and it was requested that any samples, templates, etc. that could be shared will be helpful. In order to advance the Review Meeting and Review Report a separate meeting will be schedule on Wednesdays 14:00h when we do not have a PaNOSC PMC meeting (every other week). Jordi will organise this meeting for next week (8th April).

**3. Update from the WP Leaders - update on what has been achieved and problems**


* **WP1 - Management** : Jordi explained that he has looked at the Risk Management (asked Risk Owners to update the risks accordingly and if any new risks are required they can be added to the Google Spreadsheet), the KPIs (asked WP leaders with missing information to complete it) and that he has started work on D1.5 Mid-Year Summary Report deliverable due end of May.

Rudolf and Andy also explained ongoing interaction regarding other EOSC initiatives (like the INFRAEOSC-03 call).


* **WP2 - Data Policy and Stewardship** : Andy reported meetings with ExPaNDS and within PaNOSC for WP2. Work has started on analysing the DataPolicy Framework against FAIR Criteria. The deliverable *D2.1 PaNOSC data policy framework updated* is advancing and will be ready before the end of May (maybe not for the end of April though).

Andy also reported work on the WP2 KPIs.

* **WP3 - Data Catalog Services** : Tobias explained that 1st of April has been the first day without Gareth and that the Search API will not advance as fast as before due to the WP having lost his expertise and knowledge. Also, the impossibility of face to face discussions is slowing down the work package.

Sophie asked what happened to Gareh to which Tobias answered that he left for a career move. Andy asked whether a replacement was being hired and Tobias explained that yes and a job advert was out. It was agreed that details of the job will be shared with Nicoletta, so the job can be advertised through PaNOSC website and social media.

* **WP4 Data Analysis Services** : Hans reported work on *D4.2 Prototype remote desktop and Jupyter service*. Lottie from ESS is leading the work for the prototype and at the same time work is ongoing on describing the approach to be followed for Remote Data Analysis. The WP team members are also starting to think about what to present for the Review Meeting and working with WP5.

Regarding the Portal, Hans announced that positive feedback has been received and that the next step is to add HPC cluster integration. Hans also reported that we are not the only ones developing a portal with workflows and that other clusters are following a similar approach. WP4 will be looking at synergies with other clusters, however a balance will need to be found between not wasting all the effort already made in the portal and promoting a more unified approach among all clusters.

Hans also reported work on the HDF5 viewer and that XFEL is advertising a position. Andy also noted that WP4 is interacting very well with ExPaNDS.

* **WP5 - Virtual Neutron and X-ray Laboratory** : Juncheng was absent. Andy reported that Carsten and Juncheng are organising a six-day spring for WP5 during April. **NOTE: Once Andy shares the link with the tasks for the sprint they will be added here**.

* **WP6 - EOSC Integration** : Jean-Francois explained that there hasn't been much activity in WP6 for the last two weeks. As lockdowns and remote working has been expanding due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic key staff for WP6 have been very busy supporting these activities at each partner site.

Jean-Francois reported that EGI supported the Hercules School training sessions and that now the WP is focusing on *D6.1 EGI data-hub integration with facilities' data repositories*, which will focus on data transfer from RIs to HPCs (mostly done, still missing data transfer tests a onedata permissions issue). Discussions are continuing about Globus.

Andy asked whether we can now use a Jupyter service from PaNOSC and Jean-Francois replied that what CERIC has done can be replicated at all facilities. The difference would be AAI and data transfer, but that should work.

Andy also said that Michael Schuh (DESY) mention to him a PaNOSC cloud service.
Jean-Francois explained that Michael is working with us but we can use this servie as it is. Andy will write an email to Michael to enquire about this.

Andy also mentioned that there is plenty (~200K euros worth) of computer services from DESY to spend as linked 3rd party of EGI. Also, more money is available for data transfer and also through commercial suppliers.

* **WP7 - Sustainibility** : Ornela reported that *D7.1 PaN EOSC Stakeholder Feedbacks* is very advanced and very close to a final version (expected by next week). It was agreed that a final version will be shared with WP1 using the right templates, fonts, etc. in MS Word format for a final check. In any case we will wait before submitting as we may add some of the questions for stakeholders in the deliverable.

Ornela also reported ongoing work on the cost model and template to provide the information.

Ornela finished by saying that it would be helpful if anyone that has not looked at the Stakeholder Questions would go to the Google Spreadsheet, read the content and provide feedback / more questions.

* **WP8 - Staff training in data stewardship** : Thomas reported the work on pan-learning.org as per point 1 and that now they are moving to focus on organising workshops on how to sue the learning platform and technical tasks like AAI, using cloud resources for the learning platform (see point 4 below), etc.

Thomas also reported that from now on ELI will be able to contribute more to WP8.


* **WP9 - Outreach & Communication** : Nicoletta reported progress on the DOI video and asked for feedback on the [script](https://github.com/panosc-eu/panosc/blob/master/Work%20Packages/WP9%20Outreach%20and%20communication/DOI%20Video/DOI%20VIDEO_script_def.docx). Technical specifications for the video supplier are ready and she expects that by August the video will be ready.

Regarding the video it was noted that before adding logos of Research Facilities, [LENS](https://www.lens-initiative.org/) or [LEAPS](https://leaps-initiative.eu/) we will need to obtain agreement from them. Nicoletta will be contacting the relevant persons to try to obtain agreement to use the logos.

Nicoletta also explained that the ILL Communications Officer proposed an action related to "data DOIs in accepted papers", the idea being to check with journal editors what has been done about motivating/encouraging researchers to link their datasets with a DOI in their papers. It was agreed that this action should be taken in the name of PaNOSC as everyon supports it.

Andy also explained that "thanks to COVID-19" more facilities are using DOIs and sharing data.

Nicoletta also suggested that if anyone is motivated to do a very short video (up to 3 minutes) with a testimonial of what their facility is doing with open data to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic that would be great. Andy said that he would try to contact a researcher(s) to check if they could participate in this very interesting initiative. 

Nicoletta also reported a planned telco for 20th April among communication officers of all cluster projects.

**4. Compute resources requirements - *does any work package needs anything?***

Thomas explained that it would be very useful to have access to cloud resources to run simulations during e-learning courses (around 16 cores per user instance). Also, it is required to test how that could work.

Jean-Francois invited Thomas to attend the next WP6 to discuss how these resources (either through EGI or commercially) can be provided for WP8.

Andy noted that it would be good to have a standard way to request resources instead of having to attend a WP6 meeting and Jean-Francois committed to have a discussion about this topic within WP6.

**8. AOB**

A meeting will be scheduled next week (8th April) for the Review Meeting. Also, we will replace Vydeo by Zoom from now on.



















