#+TITLE: WP4 Video meeting <2020-08-18 Tue 15:00>

:present: 

:apologies:


* Update on Portal front-end development (Jakub)
* Technical coordination workshop (Jamie/Daniel)
* Next steps for portal and user engagement (all)
- involvement of all sites

* Next meeting
* Any other business


